Melbourne — Rod Marsh has resigned as Australia’s chairman of selectors in the wake of the test team’s 2-0 series loss to South Africa. The former test wicketkeeper had intended to step down in mid-2017 but announced he was vacating the role immediately. "This is my own decision and no one within Cricket Australia has pressured me or even suggested that I should do this," Marsh said in a media release. "Clearly, though, it is time for some fresh thinking, just as it is for our Test team to welcome some new faces as we build for the future." Flayed in the press Australia have been derided in the media after the loss. The country’s newspapers‚ often considered part of the challenge touring teams face in Australia‚ aimed their guns inward on Wednesday, dedicating thousands of words to Australia’s problems and how to fix them. The noise‚ loud enough after Perth‚ reached a crescendo on Wednesday. The country’s only national daily broadsheet‚ The Australian‚ is a proper newspaper featuring unimpeachable reporting and reasoned comment. So the headline on the back page lead on Wednesday might have shocked readers: "DISGRACE TO THE BAGGY GREEN." "Australia captain Steve Smith is‚ like the Australian public‚ sick of it‚" wrote seasoned journalist Peter Lalor. "He’s embarrassed‚ angry and disappointed. He has questioned the commitment of his team and says there needs to be changes. "Smith is sick of leading a side that talks a good game only to fall on its face every time it is called on to walk a good game. "If it were Allan Border there would have been blood on the walls‚ but Smith is a gentler breed of man." Lalor also made it onto the front page with a piece headlined, "8-32‚ 0-5 adds up to an incalculable crisis", referring to SA’s 5-0 whitewash over the Aussies in a one-day series last month. "Australian cricket is in crisis like never before‚" Lalor wrote. "The captain has no answers. The coach has no answers. The men in suits are boarding planes. "Heads have to roll‚ but no matter how many sacrifices are made‚ it will not satisfy the blood lust of the public‚ of whose game they are the guardians." The front page of The Age‚ Melbourne’s respected daily‚ was dominated by a photograph of Smith walking off head bowed after being dismissed on Tuesday‚ under the headline: "The low point." "Not good enough‚" was the headline on the back page over a photograph of Kyle Abbott celebrating one of the six wickets he took in Australia’s second innings. The tabloid Herald Sun bannered its back page with: "1948 — BRADMAN HAD THE INVINCIBLES. 2016 — SMITH HAS THE INSIPIDS." Columnist Richard Hinds wrote: "The best that can be said about the deplorable state of Australian Test cricket is that there is no shortage of options‚ although most of them require a woodcutting implement. "Axe the players‚ axe the coach‚ axe the sports scientists‚ axe the selectors‚ axe the captain … axe everyone." Reuters and TMG Sport