The Public Investment Corporation (PIC), which has about R1.8-trillion in assets under management and an unlisted portfolio of about R45bn, informed Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan that it had no direct exposure to any company linked to the Gupta family. Gordhan disclosed this information in a written response to Parliament on Thursday. The PIC invests funds on behalf of the Government Employees Pension Fund, the Unemployment Insurance Fund, the Compensation Fund and other minor funds, and is the largest asset manager on the continent. Gordhan was not able to respond to COPE MP Deidre Carter’s question as to whether the Industrial Development Corporation had any such exposure, as the development finance institution falls under the control of the Department of Economic Development. DA leader Mmusi Maimane wanted to know in a parliamentary question whether VBS Mutual Bank (which lent President Jacob Zuma the R7.8m that he needed to pay for his share of the Nkandla upgrade) had ever defaulted on its payment of dividends to the PIC, which has a 25% stake in the bank. Gordhan said in a written response that the corporation had informed him that there had not been any defaults. The PIC also said that "the decision to pay dividends rests with the board of a company, after taking into account factors such as capital required for growth, capital for precautionary purposes and capital adequacy requirements, as well as compliance with the provisions of the Companies Act". VBS Mutual Bank was also the subject of a question to Gordhan by DA co-operative governance and traditional affairs spokesperson Kevin Mileham, who wanted to know whether any municipalities had deposited funds or made loans to the bank in the last five fiscal years. Gordhan said the Treasury’s database showed that over time and as at the end of June, the West Rand and Capricorn district municipalities had invested a total of R61m and R120m respectively, with only a R10m investment by West Rand remaining as of that date. Replying to another question by Maimane, Gordhan said the Department of Defence had used R96m of its budget for the lease of an aircraft to transport President Jacob Zuma. Gordhan found it necessary to qualify his response to DA deputy finance spokesperson Alf Lees about the vehicles used by South African Airways (SAA) chairperson Dudu Myeni, with a statement that the Treasury had not been able to verify the information provided by SAA. SAA had informed him that no additional vehicles had been provided to Myeni for additional travel and that, as she was not entitled to a security detail, none had been provided.