If you are like Bear Grylls, chances are a Swiss Army knife is all you will ever need. If you need that sort of thing. In car terms, I have always seen the Audi A3 as the automotive equivalent of the Swiss Army knife. No, you can&rsquo;t use it to cut open a tin of baked beans or cut a rope, but it ticks a surprising number of boxes.First, it&rsquo;s an Audi, which means it has that German premium feel about it, combined with solid quality inside and out. It also looks great and Audi interiors are probably the best in the business.The three-door hatch is probably being phased out, but that&rsquo;s okay because it was never the most practical of the line-up anyway. The Sportback has always been my favourite. It is not quite a station wagon, which is great for those people who for some bizarre reason are averse to estate cars. But it does have more practicality than a regular hatch, so it can be more car when you need it to be. It&rsquo;s kind of a hatch and a half.Then there is the sedan. For me this is the Achilles Heel for Audi, because I have said before that with its fantastic styling, decent interior space and huge boot, it makes you second guess whether you need an A4 at all. That decision just got harder.Last week, Volkswagen announced its Golf 7.5, or 7S if you are an Apple fan. The 2017 Golf will feature more tech than ever including a digital instrument cluster. The new Audi A3 (a facelift really) has that on the option list already. In fact, much of the tech in the new Golf is already here in the A3.Restraint of designMost of the changes are hidden beneath a design that has barely changed. Charl Human, Audi SA&rsquo;s product manager, describes the styling changes as "restraint of design", adding that "if you&rsquo;ve got such a good package then why do you need to change it so much?" I have to agree. The design changes are so minor that I am not even going to mention them.Under the bonnet things are very different though. There are four petrol options and one diesel. The company has introduced the 1.0l TFSI motor from the A1, with 85kW and 200Nm, to replace the 1.2. There is a new 1.4 with cylinder on demand technology and 110kW and 250Nm of torque. That cylinder on demand system automatically switches off two cylinders when they are not needed, contributing to a claimed average consumption figure of just 4.5l/100km and a CO2 emissions figure of only 105g/km.A 2.0l replaces the ageing 1.8, delivering 140kW and 320Nm of torque. This motor gets a new gearbox, in this case a seven-speed dual clutch transmission.On the diesel front, the 2.0l TDI replaces the 1.6 TDI with 105kW and 340Nm.Then there is the S3, available again in hatch, sedan, convertible and Sportback guise. Until now, the engineers have concluded that our fuel quality is just not suitable for the full power of the S3, so owners in SA have been shortchanged.Now the company has decided that while our fuel quality is still bad, it is not as bad as it once was and so they have allowed us to have the full power available in international markets. That means the S3 now gets an extra 18kW at 228kW and an additional 20Nm of torque at 400Nm. With a seven-speed dual clutch &rsquo;box, the company is claiming a 0-100km/h sprint time of just 4.5 seconds for the hatch, 4.6 seconds for the sedan and Sportback and 5.1 for the convertible.The interior has also not been changed too much, with only the air vents having received the attention of the designer&rsquo;s pen. The main development, though, is in the realms of infotainment. The A3 features Audi&rsquo;s Multimedia Interface system with a seven-inch touchscreen as standard. This can be combined with a choice of two navigation systems, both of which also come with Audi Connect. This package includes Apple CarPlay and Android Auto connectivity as well as the ability to create a Wi-Fi hotspot in the car and use Google Earth in your maps.Then there is that Virtual Cockpit. It&rsquo;s an option, but you have to have it. It turns your whole instrument cluster into a digital display that can show your navigation, multimedia, messaging and such things as a speedo and rev counter.Other items include new driver assistance systems, including pre-sense front crash prevention with pedestrian detection and cross-traffic alert at the rear.Finally, all models now come with bi-Xenon headlamps, but for the first time the Matrix LED headlights &mdash; which automatically adjust to reduce glare or increase the amount of light required &mdash; are available on the A3 as an option.We managed to drive all the derivatives except for the diesel at the launch in Franschhoek. Honestly, there were no real surprises. The ride quality was superb and I just wanted to dash up and down that short, twisty road that leads to the Franschhoek Dam in the S3 all day.ChoicesThis brings me back to Audi&rsquo;s problem. Depending on your budget you could buy an A4 with basic spec. Or you could buy an A3 sedan and spec it to the hilt with all the nice stuff. Do the latter. The A3 range really does offer everything that most people need and then some. There is the matter of bragging rights because you bought a bigger model in the A4 but, in my opinion, the A3 sedan with a S-Line styling package and all the goodies is a better looking car.