Clare Wiese, the daughter of SA’s richest man, Christo Wiese, made history on Thursday when she put in the highest bid achieved to date on a residential property auction in the country. Wiese’s R90m bid was enough for her to clinch a villa in Cape Town’s exclusive suburb of Clifton, already home to some of the most expensive real estate in SA, with properties nestled on cliffs that have sweeping views of the Atlantic Ocean. "We are very excited about the purchase. I have lived in Clifton all my life and consider it home‚" said Wiese, an accomplished businessperson herself and the founder of contemporary fine jewellery brand Paka Paka. Her father is the chairperson and largest shareholder of both Shoprite and Steinhoff. The six-bedroom mansion in Nettleton Road — arguably the most exclusive street in the country — was developed by property mogul Stuart Chait‚ who co-founded MvelaProp with Tokyo Sexwale. Sasfin Bank had been a partner. But Chait said the bank considered it "too big exposure on their books" and decided "not to extend the loan". Chait put the house — with eight bathrooms‚ a sauna‚ pool and a lift — on the market months ago for R150m. But the bank ordered the auction. He believes they could have achieved a higher price this summer, when international buyers are set to prowl for luxury. Or‚ said Chait‚ the house could be refinanced and "rented out". "We were recently offered R3.5m rental for a two-week period over Christmas and New Year by the CEO of a Fortune 500 company, and have had several rental offers at R150,000 a day‚" said Chait. Lew Geffen‚ chairperson of Lew Geffen Sotheby‘s International Realty‚ which jointly marketed the mansion‚ was not surprised at the outcome of the auction‚ which lasted just a few minutes. "We‘ve seen this time and again that when a trophy home comes onto the market as a distressed property it will always attract the right buyer at the right price‚" Geffen said. Joff van Reenen‚ director and lead auctioneer for The High Street Auction Company‚ said it was the highest bid achieved for a residential property. The bank has five working days to accept the offer‚ he said. TMG Digital