The magic number is the elephant on the back of the note. It is R20 an hour. With a minimum four hours&rsquo; pay a day, which works out to about R3,500 a month for full-time work. A seven-person panel (Prof Imraan Valodia, Prof Murray Leibbrandt, Prof Debbie Collier, Mamokete Lijane, Ayabonga Cawe, Dr Siphokazi Koyana, and International Labour Organisation adviser Dr Patrick Belser, assisted by Wits economics researcher David Francis) spent three months interrogating the research, meeting with the National Economic Development and Labour Council social partners and interviewing specialists to reach this final proposal.This is a very precise number accompanied by clear recommendations for coverage, implementation and time frames. The panel was unanimous that this process should follow an evidence-based approach, and focused on three broad areas of work: microeconomic evidence, macroeconomic evidence and international experience.The one area of research all social partners agreed on was the microeconomic evidence, on wages and poverty. The picture we see in SA is one of extreme poverty and high numbers of working poor. This falls in a broader macroeconomic context of persistently low economic growth. Indeed, the forecast for GDP growth in SA is 0.5% for 2016, according to the Treasury, and longer-term forecasts show little room for improvement.The Treasury forecast for growth of 1.3% in 2017 as well as 2% in 2018 and 2.2% in 2019 doesn&rsquo;t offer much confidence for the required high levels of job creation and compromises SA&rsquo;s ability to meet its unemployment and poverty-reduction targets.Indeed, these growth rates are far below the target of 5.6% per annum as set out in the National Development Plan.Turning to the microeconomic context, the labour market in SA has been consistently characterised by high levels of poverty, unemployment and inequality. About 29.8-million people live below the upper bound poverty line of R1,036 in 2016 and 12-million people live below the food poverty line of R445 per month.According to a recent report by Statistics SA, the unemployment rate increased from 22.5% in 2008 to 25.3% in 2015 (according to the narrow definition of unemployment). If we take into account those people who have given up looking for work, this figure was closer to 35% in 2015. The number of those who have been unemployed for more than five years has reached 1.5-million.The effect of this at the household level is striking. On average, only 36.2% of households in the poorest quintile have an employed member, with an average household monthly income of R1,671. On average, there are 4.1 unemployed people to every employed member in these households. The situation is not much better in the second-poorest quintile in which only 65.8% of households have an employed member and average household income is only R3,125 per month. The depth and extent of low wages in SA mean that even having a working member does not guarantee that a household can escape poverty.In addition, the unemployment rate for people in households in the poorest quintile is 61.2%, compared with the national average of 25%. Furthermore, an overwhelming number of poor and working poor people in this country are women. Even those women in secure employment generally earn 77c for every R1 that their male counterparts do. Thus, South African poverty continues to be linked to gender discrimination. Of the 13.2-million South Africans who do have jobs, 6.2-million (47%) earn less than the proposed minimum wage of R3,500 per month. This includes 90% of domestic workers and 85% of agricultural workers. As such, the panel believes the proposed number will have a highly significant effect on these very vulnerable workers.The panel also looked extensively at what is happening globally and was encouraged that the country will soon be joining an international trend of progressive economies that have made the decision to use the national minimum wage as one of the tools to tackle the problem of poverty and the working poor.The international evidence presents three important findings. The first is that the implementation of a national minimum wage has a strong antipoverty effect by raising the wages of the working poor. Second, a minimum wage has a redistributive effect that can contribute to a reduction in inequality. Finally, the panel was reassured by the key international finding that the implementation of minimum wages has not been accompanied by widespread job losses, despite fears from some sectors that this would happen.The economic effects of the implementation of the national minimum wage have been widely and vigorously debated, and can broadly be divided into two schools. One body of research predicts that the only firm-level response to an increase in wages is to reduce the number of jobs, and thus the only outcome of a higher minimum wage is massive job destruction. Contrary to this is the thinking that says an increase in wages for the poorest workers generates positive effects that include higher levels of productivity and also more purchasing power, which can lead to demand-driven economic growth.The panel is of the view that these models provide the outer bounds of the impact of the national minimum wage, and that the true effect will include elements of both predictions. A critical lesson the panel drew from this research is the importance of systematically and continually monitoring the manner in which the economy adjusts to the national minimum wage. The panel believes that the initial level of R20 an hour, or R3,500 per month, is the optimal level for minimising the danger of job losses while at the same time maximising the potential to increase earnings and reduce poverty and inequality.The panel recommends that the implementation of the national minimum wage is expedited to ensure real benefits to the working poor. It recommends that the agreed minimum wage level be announced as soon as possible, that the institutional arrangements be legislated in early 2017, and that enterprises and workers be given a two-year period to adjust to this initial level. The panel believes this two-year period is feasible and will reduce the risk of any negative effects significantly and allow for effective monitoring.The minimum wage should be legislated as soon as possible and enforcement with penalties will start after the two-year adjustment period. The panel was also cognisant of the concerns of how this new policy will affect the small business sector, and for this reason, proposes that small businesses be given an extra year to adjust.The panel&rsquo;s job was made easier by the excellent quality of research, the thoughtful engagements with social partners and the focused input from sector experts. We think this report has taken into account proposals and concerns from across the board.It is our belief that the detail in the proposal is advantageous to a speedy announcement that will ensure those categorised as working poor see a change in their pay packets as soon as possible. This is a great opportunity for SA to become a caring nation that recognises we cannot continue to live in a country in which almost half of workers have to find a way to live on less than R3,500 a month.The panel believes the national minimum wage sets up the conditions for a much wider debate and set of policies to tackle the urgent challenge of inequality in SA. We recognise that the level of R20 an hour is a low figure, and we sincerely hope the wage gap will start to narrow soon to create a more equitable society. But we also recognise that we are taking the step in the context of massive unemployment, and the worst outcome would be greater numbers of people who are unable to find jobs.It is important, therefore, to see the level as a first step in a longer-term process to tackle low wages in SA. We are honoured to be part of this important historical moment.&bull; Prof Valodia is dean of commerce and law at Wits University. He chaired the panel.