Corporate law history was made on Friday when shareholder activist Albie Cilliers filed SA’s first appraisal rights case in the High Court in Cape Town. The case is distinct from a minority oppression action, such as that by Airports Company SA minority shareholders. Appraisal rights are triggered by a fundamental transaction, which significantly changes the company. Cilliers’s case relates to KWV, now called La Concordia Holdings, but it has implications for all future fundamental corporate transactions that give minority shareholders the right to demand to be bought out by the majority. It will be the first time this section of the Companies Act 2008, designed to protect minority shareholders, is tested in court. La Concordia CEO Andre van der Veen said on Monday that the company opposed the action. It means a high court judge will have to determine the fair value for Cilliers’s shares. Cilliers, a Western Cape farmer, is demanding that La Concordia pays him a fair value for his shares. Section 164 of the act gives minority shareholders the right, called an appraisal right, to force the company to buy back shares at a fair value when the majority of shareholders have approved a fundamental transaction. Cilliers’s move was prompted by the sale of KWV’s operating assets to Vasari Holdings earlier this year. The sale resulted in Cilliers holding shares in La Concordia, whose assets included KWV’s property and art assets plus R1.2bn cash from the sale of the operating assets. Cilliers decided he no longer wanted to be part of what was now a substantially different company, and told La Concordia’s controlling shareholder, Niveus, he wanted to be bought out. Cilliers described Niveus’s offer of R13.47 per share as derisory. He said it was nowhere close to representing KWV’s fair value, which he reckoned to be at least R21 a share. Van der Veen, the CEO of Niveus and La Concordia, says R13.47 is fair value as determined by KPMG. In his affidavit, Cilliers slams La Concordia’s board members for failing to apply their minds to the purpose, scope and limitations of the KPMG opinion. He says the board’s view is irrational and the directors have not exercised the requisite degree of care, skill and diligence in coming to their opinion. "The KPMG opinion is not fit for the purposes of the 164 Offer." Niveus’s own documents suggested a figure of R21 per share was more realistic, Cilliers says.