AngloGold Ashanti pulled its full-year production forecast down to the lower end of its estimate after a poor safety performance in SA, but the higher gold price offset lower third-quarter output and contributed to strong cash flows. AngloGold Ashanti, the world’s third-largest gold miner by volume, said free cash flow for the three months to end-September was $161m from $50m paid out during the same period a year earlier and the $108m generated in the first half of the year. Gold production for the quarter was 900,000oz compared with 974,000oz in the same period a year ago when Cripple Creed & Victor in the US and Obuasi in Ghana jointly added 32,000oz. South African gold production fell by 7% to 235,000oz because of lower grades. During the quarter, AngloGold lost 38,600oz of gold to safety stoppages at its South African mines, bringing the total for the year to more than 80,000oz. On Friday, the Labour Court issued a judgment around the implementation of Section 54 stoppages issued by the department’s safety officials. The judgment pertaining to a full stoppage at AngloGold’s Kopanang mine ruled the entire mine did not need to be shut down for safety violations in a certain section of the operation. The matter of safety stoppages has affected gold and platinum miners alike, causing a number of CEs to speak out strongly on the matter, arguing that only relevant sections of the mine needed to be stopped rather than the entire operation, which caused heavy production and financial losses for an overzealous application of the stoppage orders by department officials. AngloGold CEO Srinivasan Venkatakrishnan said while his officials were "still in constructive dialogue" with their opposite numbers at the department, the company had taken a more "prudent" outlook of what its South African mines would deliver next year, but, he added, it would not be less than this year. There were three fatalities on South African mines during the quarter. Looking ahead, AngloGold forecast its full-year production at between 3.6-million and 3.65-million ounces compared with an earlier forecast of between 3.6-million and 3.8-million ounces. The all-in sustaining costs forecast ballooned to between $980/oz and $1,010/oz from an earlier range of $900/oz and $960/oz. The improved cash flow during the September quarter helped AngloGold lower its net debt to $1.972bn from $2.098bn in the June quarter.