Among the questions raised in relation to Africa is whether the continent can be said to be on the economic mend. This question is necessitated by the observation that Asian countries had their turn at economic growth, and African countries should logically have to be in line to benefit from an economic boom. Why do African countries continue to "miss the bus"? If African economies are sufficiently integrated into the global economy, it is important to consider why the continent seems not to benefit from this integration. There are two possible explanations: first, African countries are falling short of devising appropriate policy frameworks through which to pursue economic growth and development. Africa’s ability to fully enjoy the benefits of being integrated into the global economy is thus inhibited by internal challenges of governance including poor levels of state capacity. The second explanation is that the global financial regime including the global economic recession, has a disproportionately negative effect on Africa’s ability to share in global economic growth. This explanation is outlined in the Mapungubwe Institute (Mistra) book The Great Recession and its Implications for Human Values: Lessons for Africa. The research work that resulted in the report tackles different factors that have been identified as impediments to Africa’s economic take-off. The authors point to an inequitable global finance regime as one of the impediments for Africa’s share in global economic growth. Internal capacity problems worsen the problem and define the varied responses by individual African states towards global economic growth. Counting former president Thabo Mbeki as one of the chapter authors, the book highlights how African countries are negatively affected by global financial crises, while at the same time never enjoy returns from their opening up to, and participation in, the global finance regime. At issue is their reliance on the markets when it comes to the allocation of resources and whether this model is sufficient to tackle global economic imbalances. Mbeki questions the coherence of the system in which financial crises are orchestrated by the private sector in dominant countries and yet this "contaminates" economies all over the world including Africa. The crux of the matter is that the system does not allocate return in the same manner as it allocates costs to participants. Further, is Africa considered a worthy participant in the global financial regulatory regime or is it merely a passive recipient of the system? It is important to consider whether the global financial regulatory regime is itself not an impediment to state capacity and ability to pursue national goals, particularly as far as African countries are concerned. It is argued in the book that the domination of the global financial regime on nations and its neoliberal framework, essentially undermines the idea of a developmental state. This is more serious where the role of the state in pursuing development is stark, as is the case in Africa. Not all nations require similar levels of state capacity; African states need more capacity in line with the challenges they are experiencing. The argument that African countries have a parochial culture that essentially lacks what is required for economic lift-off does not hold in understanding the impediments to growth on the continent. The capitalist system — at least its fundament ideal that the markets will optimally distribute opportunities among players — has also fallen off. While the system periodically endures crises of confidence, there does not seem to be a willingness among participants to fully evaluate the utility of the system as a tool to attend to global inequality and the ills of society. Within societies across the continent there exist perverse incentives for accumulation by the few at the expense of the majority, which the capitalist system does not discourage. This raises the moral question of whether inequality can be eliminated under capitalism. It is important for African states to question the efficacy of the global financial regime in attending to socioeconomic problems encountered on the continent. African countries and their Latin American counterparts have for a long time maintained that they are not seen as equal partners in the global financial regime; that the system is unfair, both in terms of allocating gains and costs among participants. It is a point that is beginning to resonate in western societies in the aftermath of China’s rise to global economic stardom. Dubbed one of the main beneficiaries of globalisation, China’s rise in terms of productivity and industrial expansion has seen countries that have always been proponents of a global financial regulatory regime beginning to shift towards protectionism. Yet this shift does not say much about ensuring an equitable financial or regulatory regime. Given the effect of global economic recessions on Africa, African countries need to have a say when it comes to shaping the global financial regulatory framework. The shift towards protectionism, which culminated in the British vote to exit the EU, for example, could result in a situation in which African countries are hard done by and may miss the bus again as global economic integration is replaced by protectionism. Africa has already opened its economies to the global financial framework, with the promise that this will create opportunities for growth and further integration of African states into the world economy. The results of this effort have been less than satisfactory, as is argued in Mistra’s book. It is important to forge ahead with the conversation, asking how African countries can thrive economically through regional integration and meaningful integration into the global economic community, if such a thing exists. This book offers an opportunity to further interrogate the question of what conditions should be specified for Africans’ continued participation in the global finance regime. • Mathekga is head of political economy at Mistra.