Prosecutions head Shaun Abrahams has committed serious misconduct and "plainly displayed" that he was not fit for his job, legal lobby groups said in an urgent application to the high court for his suspension. Abrahams was widely criticised after the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) charged Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan with two counts of fraud, sending the rand into free-fall, only to withdraw the charges a few weeks later, admitting that a case against Gordhan would be impossible to prove. Pressure for him to resign mounted on Wednesday, with the opposition DA saying that it will use "all instruments" in Parliament to push Abrahams and Hawks boss Berning Ntlemeza out of office, following a litany of scandals. Despite calls, Abrahams has refused to resign. Legal organisations Freedom Under Law and the Helen Suzman Foundation then approached the High Court in Pretoria — late on Tuesday night — to challenge President Jacob Zuma’s lack of action on this score. They want the court to order the president to suspend Abrahams as well as senior prosecutors Torie Pretorius SC and Sibongile Mzinyathi — who Abrahams said had taken the initial decision to charge Gordhan — and to establish inquiries into their fitness for office. In an affidavit, the Helen Suzman Foundation’s Francis Antonie said the NPA’s power to prosecute had been used "for such blatantly obvious ulterior motives that it has caused a national uproar". If the three were to remain in office, it would jeopardise "dozens of critical prosecutions and investigations daily" and their decisions may be very difficult to reverse, he said. Abrahams was already "threatening" that new charges — relating to an investigation into the so-called rogue unit at the South African Revenue Service — might yet be brought against Gordhan, said Antonie. He questioned how Abrahams had conducted himself when he announced the charges — making lengthy comments that the unit was unlawfully established. This showed Abrahams held "a patent and shameless prejudice" towards the rogue unit matter. Antonie said it was important to have an "impeccable" prosecuting service which would pursue the interests of SA above narrow political interests. Instead, the manner in which the case against Gordhan was pursued, and then dropped, could only be reasonably explained on the basis that he was "being targeted for sinister ulterior purposes or to further the political agenda of others". Antonie also said that Freedom Under Law and the Helen Suzman Foundation "understand" that Abrahams was a member of "the reference group" — a group made up of officials from government, the police and intelligence. The DA said it was pushing ahead with a private member’s bill that would allow for the removal of a national director of public prosecutions through a vote of at least two-thirds in the National Assembly. Currently, the Constitution does not make provisions for the removal of a national director of public prosecutions, but the National Prosecuting Authority Act concentrates the powers of removing an NDPP to the office of the president. Speaking to reporters in Parliament, DA MP Glynis Breytenbach said Abrahams’s faux pas included dropping perjury charges against Nomgcobo Jiba in 2015, re-instituting charges against KwaZulu-Natal Hawks commander Johan Booysens, and meeting with officials at Luthuli House days before charging Gordhan. "It is abundantly clear that the current head of the NPA is highly questionable and not fit for office," said Breytenbach.