The JSE is likely to be jittery on Wednesday as the market awaits Thursday’s central bank interest rate decision and Friday’s verdict on SA’s sovereign credit rating from Moody’s. Markets trading ahead of the JSE’s opening generally took their cue from Wall Street where the Dow Jones Industrial index broke the 19,000 point barrier on Tuesday for the first time. Tokyo Stock Exchange was closed on Wednesday for Japan’s Labour Thanksgiving Day. Sydney’s S&P/ASX 200 gained 1.18%, helped by BHP Billiton’s 2.54% rise to A$25.88. BHP closed 2.3% higher at R232 on the JSE on Tuesday. Statistics SA is scheduled to release October’s consumer price index (CPI) at 10am, which will provide a clue to Thursday’s interest rate announcement by Lesetja Kganyago at 3pm. Investec Bank economist Kamilla Kaplan forecasts CPI inflation to decelerate to 6% from Septembers’ 6.1%. "In October, food and petrol price dynamics are likely to have remained the key influencing factor on the headline CPI outcome. Specifically, the food and petrol price components should reflect the continued lagged drought effects, as well as the petrol price hike of 43c/litre in the month of October," she wrote in a note on Friday. Hosken Consolidated Investments (HCI) and its subsidiaries are scheduled to release interim results for the six months to end-September on Wednesday. HCI said in a trading statement on Tuesday it expected to report headline earnings per share grew between 23.5% and 13.5%. Basic earnings, however, declined up to 28%. "The decrease in basic earnings per share is mainly as a result of consolidated losses on disposal of certain subsidiaries during the period and the impairment of assets in anticipation of disposal subsequent to reporting date," the trading statement said. HCI’s subsidiary eMedia said in a trading statement on November 15 it expected to report on Wednesday headline earnings per share to decrease by up to 20% while basic earnings grew up to 20%. "The positive increase in earnings per share can be attributed to the recovery in the market share of the groups’ core asset, e.tv and the consequent impact it had on advertising revenue increasing by 11.3% year-on-year. The decrease in headline earnings per share is due to the once-off gain recognized in the prior period relating to de-recognition of the share based payment liability resulting from certain share options that were forfeited," eMedia’s trading statement said. Niveus, which houses HCI’s liquor and gambling assets, said in a trading statement on November 14 it expected to report headline earnings per share of between 80.3c and 85c from the matching period’s headline loss per share of 23.7c. Deneb, which houses assets remaining in Seardel after eMedia was unbundled, warned its headline earnings per share fell by up to 63.8% due to a R20.4m foreign exchange loss.