Cardiff — There was a refreshing change in attitude from the Springbok camp on Tuesday, when forwards coach Matt Proudfoot admitted that the team had failed in the contact area against Italy last week. Despite poor results all season, and on this tour in particular, much of the rhetoric from the Bok camp has been about missed opportunities and silly mistakes, rather than systematic problems. But Proudfoot admitted the breakdown and the team’s contact skills were not good enough against Italy. Those deficiencies went some way to the Boks losing 20-18 in Florence as they slumped to their seventh defeat in 11 Tests this season. Considering that the Boks have been decimated through injury in the openside position during the course of 2016, it is no wonder the breakdown has suffered. Any side would struggle to replace the injured Francois Louw, Marcell Coetzee and Siya Kolisi and to be unable to call on Schalk Burger and Heinrich Brüssow. Nizaam Carr struggled at the breakdown against Italy. It will not become easier against Wales at the Principality Stadium on Saturday, with British and Irish Lions skipper Sam Warburton bearing down on every second ruck. Against England two weeks ago, the Boks went into the match without a recognised openside flank and with a specific battle plan in mind. The outcome was a 37-21 defeat, although the breakdown was not as pivotal in the final outcome as it was against Italy. "We had a breakdown plan against England for that challenge, but we weren’t as good as we would’ve liked across the park in our execution," Proudfoot said. "But for 30 minutes in that game, we were pretty clinical, so we have gone back and looked at that and at what we did against Australia when we played against two fetchers [David Pocock and Michael Hooper]. "Warburton is a world-class player who really thinks about his attack at either the first or second breakdown. "We have looked at our strategies for that and what we have learnt from the Italian match is that they hit rucks with an attacker plus two players. "In the southern hemisphere, it is normally an attacker plus one, and that difference really stunted our quick ball progression last week. "So, that was an aspect we focused on at training — how to generate quicker and more effective ball. "The breakdown is not only the fetcher’s role, he might take [care] of the first one, but there are 90 more in a match that the rest of the team has to take care of," he said. "We’ve worked on the ball carrier in contact, the effectiveness of the arriving players and the order with which they arrive at the breakdown." A possible curve ball to the loose-forward selection this weekend is that Willem Alberts, who was highly effective against England but less so against Italy, is nursing a neck injury that could rule him out. Should Alberts have to cry off, it would rob the Boks of an experienced operator and a physical battering ram against a Welsh pack that has developed into a bruising unit. But Proudfoot believes the Boks would cope if Alberts were ruled out even though he was critical of the team’s physicality against Italy. "We lacked physicality against Italy and not just from the loose forwards," said the forwards coach. "We were frustrated without physicality at maul time and that stunted us. We carried well, but we weren’t great in contact and that’s where our physicality was down. We couldn’t get any momentum. "We have some exciting options in that position," Proudfoot said. "Jean-Luc du Preez is someone we have been looking at. Uzair Cassiem has been effective for the Cheetahs at No7 and, of course, Oupa Mohoje has been there and done it."