If a court were to order the suspension of prosecutions head Shaun Abrahams, this would "paralyse" and weaken the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA), says an organisation seeking to join the court case over Abrahams’ fitness for office. Questions pertaining to Abrahams’ suitability came thick and fast after he announced the decision to prosecute Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan for fraud, only to withdraw the charges weeks later. Legal lobby groups Freedom Under Law and the Helen Suzman Foundation have approached the High Court in Pretoria, challenging President Jacob Zuma’s "failure" to take decisions, within a reasonable time, on whether to suspend Abrahams and establish an enquiry into whether he is fit to be national director. The court case is due to be heard on Thursday. TransformRSA — a recently formed nonprofit organisation seeking the transformation of constitutional institutions — has thrown its weight behind the NPA and Abrahams. It said the court orders sought by Freedom Under Law and the Helen Suzman Foundation undermined prosecutorial independence. In an application to join as a friend of the court — filed on Monday — TransformRSA’s director Thabang Nkunyane said the case was "part and parcel of a smear campaign intended to force the National Director of Public Prosecutions (NDPP) and his staff to dread taking prosecutorial decisions involving certain politicians who they like". He said there was "no doubt" that if there was a decision to prosecute Zuma, the two organisations would "support the NPA with the same vigour that they oppose his (sic) decision involving minister of finance Gordhan". Nkunyane said a prosecutorial decision could not be the basis on which to remove the NDPP and amounted to improper interference with his duties. If the president were forced to do so, it would represent the "worst form (of) political interference in the functioning of the NPA". He said that the language used by the Helen Suzman Foundation’s Francis Antonie in his own court papers was "disparaging, uncouth and does not belong in any court". He said the case was part of a broader political campaign to unseat Abrahams, but this undermined the independence of the NPA. Allegations that Abrahams was politically motivated were speculative and "without any basis", he said. Nkunyane said not all criticism of the NPA would be inimical to prosecutorial independence. But where criticism would render the NPA dysfunctional, it would constitute interference, which he said was prohibited in terms of the NPA Act. It would also amount to "scandalising" the NPA in a similar way to the criminal prohibition on scandalising the court, he said. "The criticism against the NDPP exceeds what is acceptable within our constitutional democracy," Nkunyane said. Freedom Under Law and the Helen Suzman Foundation have opposed TransformRSA entering the fray as a friend of the court, saying its application was late.