De Beers expects "reasonable" year-end diamond sales in the US, the single largest market, and has largely worked through the inventory it built up during a difficult year for rough diamond sales last year, says CEO Bruce Cleaver. De Beers, the largest producer of diamonds by value and second to Russia’s Alrosa in volume, had no immediate plans to increase production from its mines in SA, Botswana, Namibia and Canada because of the short-to medium-term outlook for the market as new mines came into production, he said. Year-end sales in the US, starting the day after Thanksgiving up to Christmas, account for half of all diamond jewellery sales in that country, which makes up nearly half of global diamond demand. De Beers targets the bulk of its annual $120m advertising spend at this time of year on American consumers. "The US market has continued to grow quite well in the past few years. Last year we saw about 5% growth and this year we expect roughly that kind of number or slightly less, but a good, positive number," Cleaver said. "The mood amongst our sightholders (clients) is good and all indications are that we should expect a reasonable Christmas," he said. Throughout the year, De Beers has been selling its stockpile of unsold rough diamonds. "It’s fair to say we are pretty close to working down our excess inventory. This excellent trend of working through this inventory has continued through the year," he said. So far this year, De Beers has sold $4.68bn worth of rough diamonds in eight out of 10 sales, with the 11th under way in Gaborone this week. Diamond analysts said there were increasingly positive signs of recovery in the diamond markets, and Macquarie analysts said they thought the recovery was sustainable. Diamond prices have increased 7% so far this year — "not a massive win to be sure, but enough to signal a return to positivity in the sector", the analysts said in a report. "The industry is increasingly relying on solid growth in the US, which has now delivered 11 consecutive quarters of growth. "On the one hand, we think the US market is stable and strong enough to support global diamond demand, but we do worry about all the eggs being in one basket," they said. Cleaver said he was satisfied with the performance of the sales, with about 80 clients attending each of the 10 sales in Gaborone, Botswana. "The industry is in a better place than last year and our customers are in a good space, but I must stress we live in a volatile, real world and I don’t see 2017 being a stellar year by any means. Hopefully, next year will be one of continued, steady growth," he said. "In the longer term, we are very positive, but in the medium term we are cautiously optimistic," he said, referring to the next two to three years of outlook for demand and pricing. The increased output from new diamond mines, including De Beers’ own Gahcho Kue mine, was ramping up production quickly as it tapped into fresh ore, Cleaver said. "There will be more production next year than this year when there were more sales than production as the industry sold unsold stock," he said.