President Jacob Zuma assured us recently that SA was not a banana republic. We are inclined to agree. SA’s exploits are a lot more like a soap opera’s theatrics. Each new episode brings ever-more absurd, outrageous and distressing developments. We can rely on regular new episodes, with an ever-expanding cast of characters, even though there are some trusty stars who appear again and again. Choosing the most riveting episode is a tough one, but the kidnapping-in-the-boardroom incident at the South African Revenue Service (SARS) is up there among the most outrageous, and is one of the most disturbing. It is also one of several such episodes in the life of SARS that is surely doing deep and possibly irreparable damage to a key South African institution, one that had long and carefully built a tax culture and a tax morality that could easily be destroyed if these kinds of episodes continue. The National Prosecuting Authority’s (NPA’s) Shaun Abrahams has now, thankfully, dropped the spurious fraud charges against Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan. But the damage to institutions, and to public perceptions of those institutions, may be more long lasting. The Symington episode came, damagingly, after the NPA had already charged Gordhan on what rapidly proved to be remarkably flimsy and ill-assembled evidence. Vlok Symington, who is deputy director of law at SARS, had authored a 2009 opinion advising that it was within the rules for SARS to rehire former commissioner Ivan Pillay on contract even after he had taken early retirement and been paid out for it — the supposed "fraud" with which Gordhan was charged. When the NPA asked the Hawks to obtain an affidavit from Symington, he was also, by mistake, sent an e-mail to SARS commissioner Tom Moyane from a SARS external lawyer, who had refused to have anything to do with the case on ethical grounds. If all that was not damaging enough, a tussle ensued when the Hawks and Moyane’s bodyguard detained Symington in the boardroom and tried physically to prevent his departure, which looked even worse. Most damaging is that the footage of the tussle suggests that Moyane himself was involved in fabricating the evidence against Gordhan. If that is the case, it is high time Moyane, who has been controversial from the start, was dismissed. He has done a great deal of damage to SARS already, driving out more than 55 experienced executives and implementing a restructuring against Gordhan’s wishes whose rationale is unclear and that will erode SARS’s ability to collect revenue at a very tough time for the economy and the fiscus. The boardroom debacle can only add to the damage Moyane has caused, raising the risk that tax morality is compromised and citizens start looking for any way they can find to avoid paying, just as they used to in the old days before Gordhan took over as SARS commissioner and began the process of turning SA’s tax culture around, creating the revenue dividend that enabled a huge increase in propoor social spending by government. Now, he had to announce in his medium-term budget a R111bn shortfall in tax revenue collections over the next three years, given an even weaker-than-expected economic outlook. We already face tax hikes and government spending cuts and SA cannot afford any deterioration in tax morality or in SARS’s ability to collect revenues. SARS itself therefore needs to be able to demonstrate the highest ethical standards. The behaviour of the Hawks and of SARS in the Symington episode needs to be thoroughly investigated. Moyane must be subject to disciplinary action if there is even a hint of wrongdoing.