Municipalities may not hold a property owner liable for a previous owner’s historical municipal debts, the High Court in Pretoria ruled on Monday. The judgment will give relief to home and business owners who have been saddled with years of historical municipal debt, and who have been refused municipal services until the debt had been settled. A seller may not transfer a property unless he has a municipal clearance certificate for the last two years of bills. But older debts — those that arose before the two-year cut-off — became the liability of the new owner. Failure to pay entitled a municipality to attach and sell the property to satisfy the debt. However, this section of the Local Government: Municipal Systems Act was declared unconstitutional by the High Court in Pretoria on Monday. Judge Dawie Fourie said the section unjustifiably limited the new owner’s property rights under the Constitution. "Why should a municipality be entitled to visit the sins of a predecessor in title upon innocent third parties?" he asked. The judgment was the result of five different court cases. One of them concerned a business premises with a historical debt of more than R12m. In another, one applicant, wheelchair-bound Fredah Kekana, had been without electricity since December 2013. The judge said new owners had no connection to the historical debt. New owners "were in no position whatsoever" to control the indebtedness of their predecessors in title — but municipalities were. The purpose of the law was to ensure a municipality’s economic viability, he said. This was a legitimate purpose, but it did not justify forcing the new owner to pay. The law "casts the net far too wide" and could lead to the total deprivation of the property. Fourie also said that the City of Tshwane and the Ekurhuleni Metropolitan Municipality had no right to refuse municipal services if the historical debt was not paid. After examining a series of by-laws, he said there was nothing in them that made the new owner liable. For the municipality to hold them liable would be "disregarding its constitutional duty to ensure the provision of services". South African Local Government Association spokesman Sivuyile Mbambato said the association welcomed the judgment, although it came at a time when municipalities were facing strain. These issues could be avoided if consumers paid on time and municipalities collected on time, he said. Samkelo Mgobozi, spokesman for Tshwane mayor Solly Msimanga, said the new administration would look at the judgment carefully to prevent this from happening again. "No one should be allowed to deregister and change property if outstanding rates and taxes are not up to date," he said.