SA has won six more months of breathing space from two of the major ratings agencies, but it faces the most risky ratings hurdle when the third of the agencies, S&P Global Ratings, reveals on Friday whether it has opted for a downgrade. Fitch changed its outlook on SA from stable to negative on Friday evening, as it had been widely expected to do. But Moody’s surprised the market by simply holding fire, issuing a detailed opinion rather than affirming or downgrading the rating in what many took to be a positive move that reflected the success of the government, business and labour partnership to avert a downgrade. The clear message from both agencies, however, was that they were concerned about the extent to which SA’s political infighting and uncertain policy environment were holding back its growth — and that until it could tackle that, the pressure would be on for a downgrade. Fitch’s move puts it on par with S&P, which has SA’s foreign currency rating at just one above subinvestment grade (junk status) and on negative outlook. A downgrade by S&P on Friday would take SA down into junk territory, with potentially dire consequences for the cost and availability of debt, but many in the market expect that S&P might instead cut SA’s local currency rating, which is at three notches above subinvestment grade, while leaving the foreign rating unchanged. The local rating covers rand-denominated debt issued in the domestic market but matters for certain global indices. S&P’s decision on Friday to cut Eskom’s rating, which was already subinvestment grade, raised new fears about SA’s rating, but Macquarie economist Elna Moolman said there was not necessarily a "clear read" through to the sovereign rating. Fitch cited an increase in "political risks to standards of governance and policy making". It said infighting within the ANC and government would distract policy makers and continue to undermine the investment climate, constraining GDP growth. It warned that it could downgrade SA’s rating if GDP growth failed to recover and instability continued, but it gave government credit for its fiscal tightening — as did Moody’s, whose lead analyst for SA Zuzana Brixiova noted the Treasury had consistently met spending ceilings introduced in 2012. The Moody’s report also cited the accountability and independence of key institutions, such as the judiciary, Reserve Bank and the Treasury as credit strengths. The Treasury said efforts by SA to keep the country on investment grade had paid off. "Government, business, civil society, labour and politicians continue to work hard to build a foundation for faster growth," it said. It pointed to progress in areas such as energy, state-owned enterprises and the national minimum wage as among the measures that had ensured an investment grade status for SA. Citadel Asset Management’s Adrian Saville said, however, until such time as SA’s policy makers could convert talk into results, it was only a matter of time before SA got downgraded. 