ANC MPs said in Parliament on Wednesday that questions about Mineral Resources Minister Mosebenzi Zwane’s controversial appointment of a female deputy director-general in an acting position, indicated an antitransformation stance, and were based on the fact that she was a woman. Zwane appeared before Parliament’s mineral resources committee to explain the appointment of his chief of staff, Seipati Dlamini, as acting deputy director-general of mineral policy in the department. Dlamini was previously the minister’s chief of staff. The appointment has been questioned by DA mineral resources spokesperson James Lorimer, who has expressed concern over what he said seemed an "irregular" appointment to what was a highly technical and specialised position, which also involved the processing of mining licences. He said Dlamini had only been involved in the mining sector for about one year. Dlamini was previously employed in the Free State department of agriculture as a financial officer and had allegedly made an irregular payment to a Gupta-linked dairy venture in the province. She has also worked in the Northern Cape provincial government. Zwane told MPs that Dlamini had the necessary experience and had worked in government for some time. He insisted that all due processes had been followed in appointing Dlamini, who met the necessary requirements. Zwane found it "very odd" that questions were raised over an appointment, which currently was only an acting one. The minister also questioned the right of committee members to probe such administrative matters of his department. He said it would be problematic if the committee conducted its business on the basis of rumours and expected him to come to Parliament to answer questions on this basis. ANC MPs once again leapt to the minister’s defence, arguing that the DA was objecting to Dlamini’s appointment because she was a woman. The department was trying to promote women. ANC MP Zwelivelile "Mandla" Mandela said he was satisfied with the minister’s response. "Here is a black woman who has been empowered but it comes under scrutiny." Lorimer said in a statement after the meeting that the transparent use of the race/gender card by ANC MPs "is becoming an increasingly frequent tactic used by the ANC to excuse shady goings-on in its administration. "The ANC majority excused the minister from complying with my request to be kept apprised of the paperwork during the process of making a permanent appointment to this position, so as to be assured that the process was above board. ANC members said they trusted the minister’s word and did not believe the committee should involve itself further in the matter. "This issue where accountability is avoided and questioners attacked, goes to the heart of why there has been capture of the South African state. The ANC continues to rally around Zuma and his cronies and defend attempts to avoid transparency and accountability," Lorimer said. "The DA regards this appointment with great suspicion and will track the process to make a permanent appointment to this position as far as is possible."