The introduction of the proposed carbon tax could see the economy end up 1%-3% smaller in 2035 than it would have been without the tax, with exports from sectors such as iron and steel hit particularly hard. But the tax could boost exports from sectors such as footwear and machinery and is expected to cut SA’s greenhouse gas emissions by 26%-33% by 2035. It would go a long way towards meeting SA’s commitment to cut emissions by 42%, according to a report from the Treasury, which has conducted an economy-wide modelling exercise to estimate the effect of the carbon tax. The controversial tax, which the Treasury had hoped to implement from the beginning of 2017, is now likely to be implemented at the end of 2017 or early in 2018. Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan said in his medium-term budget policy statement in October the legislation on the new tax would now be processed by Parliament in 2017 because there had been no time to process it in 2016 as planned. The Treasury estimates the tax could initially raise about R10bn in revenue, though chief director Cecil Morden said the net effect would be small because it would be offset by the reduction of electricity levies, which the Treasury is committed to reduce. The tax has attracted extensive criticism from business because it will further add to the cost of electricity at a time when electricity prices have soared. It will also place a heavy burden particularly on energy-intensive, export-orientated mining and industrial sectors, further denting SA’s weak economic growth. The Treasury held a workshop with about 80 industry representatives on Thursday to share the findings of the modelling exercise. It was conducted about a year ago after industry stakeholders said they would like to see estimates of the economic effect of the tax, as outlined in the Treasury’s 2013 carbon tax policy paper. The modelling exercise, which looked at four tax designs and five recycling schemes, had been well received, Morden said. The tax will be "recycled" back into the economy, whether through reductions in other taxes or through support to specific sectors, and that will help to balance its economic impact. The modelling showed the tax would cut the annual average growth rate of the economy by just 0.05-0.15 percentage points compared to business as usual. It also showed that the carbon tax would have a small effect on employment, consumption and real wages, with the annual growth in the employment rate falling by just 0.07 percentage points.