Angry Kaizer Chiefs fans chanted "Steve must go, Steve must go" as beleaguered head coach Steve Komphela made his way out of Soccer City on Wednesday night. Chiefs were held to a 1-1 draw by SuperSport United in an entertaining match, but the fans voiced their unhappiness with the embattled coach. AmaKhosi are struggling at the moment and Komphela has been singled out as the main reason for the Naturena side’s poor run of form. The contest itself was decided in the first half after Thabo Mnyamane’s opening goal for United in the 30th minute and George Lebese’s equaliser almost immediately. The sprinkling of supporters who braved the early evening showers that swept across parts of Johannesburg on Wednesday night and attended the game certainly got their money’s worth as the two sides didn’t hold back, especially in the first half. United, led by the troublesome Jeremy Brockie, kept the AmaKhosi rearguard on their toes and Chiefs did likewise in the opposite end of the pitch. It was United who finally broke the deadlock half an hour into the game when Brockie provided a cross behind the Chiefs defence and a grateful Mnyamane stuck the ball into the top corner of the net. The few travelling United supporters were still celebrating the goal when play swung to the opposite end of the pitch and Lebese calmly turned inside the area, picked his spot and stuck the ball past goalkeeper Reyaad Pieterse’s reach. Lebese should have given Chiefs the lead moments later when his curling shot beat Pieterse, but did not bend enough at the crucial moment, finally sneaking just inches past the upright. Meanwhile, Mamelodi Sundowns finally got the better of Lamontville Golden Arrows as they overwhelmed the Durban side 3-0 to record their third Absa Premiership win on the trot at Loftus Versfeld Stadium on Wednesday evening. It will be a sweet victory for coach Pitso Mosimane after Abafana Bes’thende took four points from Sundowns last season, winning away from home before holding the Brazilians to a goalless draw in the corresponding fixture. The match started on a rather pedestrian pace, with the home side dominating possession and pinning visitors in their own half. Following a lucklustre opening half-an-hour of football, Sundowns scored late in the first half to take the lead through the boot of captain Hlompho Kekana, 1-0. Mosimane’s charges caught the visitors cold just after the restart with a second goal courtesy of Sibusiso Vilakazi, who scored his second league goal of the season in successive matches, to make it 2-0. With 15 minutes remaining, Sundowns scored their third goal and ended the match as a contest. TMG Digital