The DA and the Freedom Front Plus have condemned a comment made by EFF leader Julius Malema that, "We are not calling for the slaughter of white people‚ at least for now." Malema made this comment on Monday after he appeared in the Newcastle Magistrate’s Court on charges of contravening the Riotous Assemblies Act of 1956 for calling on people to occupy vacant land around the country. The DA said Malema’s violent and threatening language had no place in our constitutional democracy. "Indeed‚ the Constitution is founded on the democratic principles of ‘human dignity‚ equality and freedom’ and the fact the country belongs to all those who live in it‚" DA national spokeswoman Phumzile van Damme said. The Freedom Front Plus said that by encouraging people to occupy land illegally‚ Malema was making himself as guilty as those who contravene the laws of SA. "Malema and the EFF should take note that white landowners will not just meekly sit and watch how their land is occupied and taken away," Freedom Front Plus chairman Pieter Groenewald said. He added this was racial hatred and created the potential for civil war in SA. Malema is applying to the high court to have the Riotous Assemblies Act‚ with which he is being charged, be declared unconstitutional. His lawyer, Tumi Mokwena, asked the court to postpone the matter for six months pending the outcome of the high court application. Magistrate Theunis Colditz agreed to postpone the matter to May 5 2017. It was agreed that Malema would have until December 7, 2016 to prove to the regional court that he had lodged the application with the high court. Immediately after walking out of court, Malema addressed his supporters in the northern KwaZulu-Natal town and made the same call for people to occupy vacant land around the country. "When the state has failed to give you the land for the past 22 year‚ it will be irresponsible for me to say continue waiting‚" Malema said. "That’s why I say occupy the land because they [the government] have failed to give you the land. If it means going to prison for telling you to take the land‚ so be it‚" the EFF leader told the crowd. TMG Digital