Rajkot — Top-ranked India will look to settle old scores by unleashing their spinners against a fragile-looking England when the first Test of a five-match series begins here on Wednesday. England were the last team to win a Test series on Indian soil when they came from behind to triumph 2-1 in 2012, but India are enjoying an impressive run. Talismanic captain Virat Kohli has scored two Test double centuries in 2016 and has led his side to four series wins in a row after taking over the captaincy in 2015. Recent victories including a whitewash of New Zealand, have not only dimmed memories of three consecutive Test series defeat to England — in 2011, 2012 and 2014 — but also whetted India’s appetite for revenge. Their prospects have been boosted by the sparkling form of Ravichandran Ashwin, who became the second-quickest bowler to reach 200 wickets during India’s 3-0 demolition of the Black Caps. The off-spinner will look to exploit an England batting line-up that struggled on slow and low pitches during their recent tour of Bangladesh that saw them lose a Test to the minnows for the first time. "Ashwin is a good bowler. He uses his variations very well, especially the way he approaches the crease. He’s always looking to attacking and outfox a batsman," former England star Kevin Pietersen told The Cricketer magazine. Alastair Cook’s men, fourth in the world rankings, were cut down to size by teenage Bangladeshi spinner Mehedi Hasan who bagged 19 wickets from the two games last month. The second Test upset also reminded England of shortcomings in their own spinning department but Cook said he was confident that Adil Rashid, Moeen Ali and rookie Zafar Ansari would deliver, despite just having 105 wickets among them. England have also brought back 39-year-old Gareth Batty while Pakistan great Saqlain Mushtaq is there to mentor the spinners. Cook believes his side will bounce back from the Bangladesh defeat. "Every time this side has been questioned we’ve always found a way of improving and I expect that. "It’s exciting because we are quite heavy underdogs and that is sometimes a very good place to be," he said. England’s middle-order looks shaky with Gary Ballance averaging just 18 in his last eight innings. Their pace department will also suffer from the absence of Jimmy Anderson, who has recovered from injury but not in time for the first Test. India have some nagging concerns at the top of the batting order. Despite trying out five combinations in their last 14 Tests, India have failed to post a century opening partnership. With injured openers Shikhar Dhawan and Lokesh Rahul ruled out of the first two Tests, selectors are scurrying for new combinations. Coach Anil Kumble said India would not be weighed down by memories of their last encounters with England, insisting that recent form was more important. "Yes, some players played in the last series but for us … immediate performance matters. That’s the confidence we would like to take into the series," Kumble said. AFP