Kuala Lumpur/Jakarta — Developing-nation assets extended a selloff as prospects that Donald Trump’s administration will ramp up spending and spur further US policy tightening curbed demand for risk. The Turkish lira and SA’s rand led declines among emerging-market currencies as the yield on 10-year Treasuries climbed to levels unseen since January. A gauge of developing-nation equities retreated for a fourth day amid speculation that the US is headed for an era of rising interest rates and more protectionist trade policies. "The higher US bond yields are really weighing negatively on the emerging-market space," said Stephen Innes, a senior trader at Oanda Asia Pacific in Singapore. "From a capital preservation point of view, everybody’s looking to buy US dollars." Currencies The MSCI Emerging Markets Currency index slid 0.3% as of 8.31am in London after falling 2.3% last week, the most since June 2013. The lira, rand and Hungarian forint tumbled 1%, while South Korea’s won, the Czech koruna and Malaysia’s ringgit were among currencies weakening at least 0.7%. Bank Negara Malaysia said on Sunday it was taking measures to reinforce existing rules to prohibit facilitation of ringgit nondeliverable forwards. Thailand’s baht slid to the lowest in a month after overseas investors cut their holdings of the nation’s bonds by a record on Friday. Hike odds Traders see an 84% chance the Federal Reserve will increase rates at its December meeting, up from 76% at the end of the week before the November 8 US presidential election, according to data compiled by Bloomberg based on futures. "Looks like sentiment is weighed by uncertainty related to US president-elect Trump, and the view is his overall stance would push US inflation higher and also speed up the pace of US rate hikes," said Jeon Seung-ji, currency analyst at Samsung Futures in Seoul. The Mexican peso dropped 0.7%, having weakened 12% in the previous three sessions. It earlier climbed as much as 1.1% after Anthony Scaramucci, who is on the executive committee of Trump’s transition team, hinted at a softer stance on trade in an opinion piece in the Financial Times. The Republican candidate had campaigned on promises to tear up trade deals including the North American Free Trade Agreement, crack down on illegal immigration, and build a wall along the southern border that would be paid for by Mexico. Stocks The MSCI Emerging Markets index fell 0.8%, headed for its lowest close since July 8. All 11 industrial groups declined, led by the gauges for real estate and technology companies. Ulker Biskuvi Sanayi tumbled 9.5% in Istanbul, headed for the biggest drop since June 2013. Semiconductor Manufacturing International slumped 7.5% in Hong Kong. "The weakness is still driven by speculation that Trump will increase infrastructure spending and boost the growth of the US economy," said Dwianto Oktory, a portfolio manager at PT Indo Premier Investment Management in Jakarta. The Jakarta Composite index fell 2.1% in the biggest decline in Asia, adding to a 4% plunge last Friday. Benchmark equity gauges in Bulgaria, Thailand and the Philippines dropped at least 1.3%. Dubai’s DFM General index fell 1%, taking its four-day decline to 3.3%. Bloomberg