Observers of the South African retail industry are not convinced that Stuttafords can survive business rescue as planned. The grand old dame of retailers has announced it has voluntarily submitted itself to business rescue. It will present details of this in February 2017, following festive season trading. "I think by the end of next year, it will be extinct," Kaeleen Brown, a retail analyst at SBG Securities said on Monday. Stuttafords has about 13 international brands including Ted Baker, Gap, French Connection and Banana Republic under its banner. It trades from eight department stores and 15 monobrand stores. But the retailer has failed to maintain momentum among aspirational South African shoppers. CEO Robert Amoils said on Monday that from February, the group had seen a dramatic fall in turnover and margins. Competitors had been promoting and discounting products and Stuttafords was obliged to follow suit. "We saw dramatic declines in customer demand, whether it was in the form of customers buying less or less often — and when they did buy, they bought down in terms of lower-priced products," he said. Brown said if the business were to survive, offering further credit might be a big driver of sales. The group had always offered credit. Most recently, this accounted for about 18% of turnover. The group had teamed up with credit provider RCS to offer a Stuttafords store card. Amoils said this gave some good traction, "albeit far lower than we had ... hoped for". The credit was six months interest-free, funded by the business. But it was not viable to continue to extend credit on those terms, given the financial constraints, he said. Vestacor, the venture capitalist investment company that owns Stuttafords, also owns music retailer Look & Listen. The latter applied for business rescue in 2014. Norton Rose Fulbright financial restructuring and insolvency practice head Haroon Laher, said the Stuttafords business rescue plan was likely to have the objectives of maintaining the business and restoring it to a state of solvency, "so that it can continue going forward as a viable business". "It may well be that there are brands within Stuttafords that need to be disposed of or that need to be cut away, just the way that Edgars has done," Laher said.