Conditions for retailers are becoming rough. Hefty hikes in food prices have contributed to the poor results and updates recently announced by nonfood retailers Truworths, Mr Price and TFG. It seems food retailers are no longer able to absorb the drought-related pressure and are putting up prices 7%-9%. More money spent on food means less for other goods. But it might just be that, comparatively speaking, things are not as bad as they seem. Nonfood credit retailers say their weak results have been aggravated by the tougher new affordability guidelines introduced by the National Credit Regulator (NCR) in 2015. The guidelines are intended to prevent reckless lending and oblige potential customers to produce their latest three months of pay slips or bank statements. TFG, Truworths and Mr Price are so unhappy with the legislation, they have launched legal action against the NCR and the Department of Trade and Industry. They say their own vetting is effective and the required documentation is burdensome. TFG, which says it is losing hundreds of millions of rand of credit sales, claims the legislation prevents it from doing business with people who are self-employed, or working in the informal sector and do not have payslips or bank accounts. It’s not clear how the retailers work out what their customers can afford. But on the brighter side, if millions of people are in informal work or self-employed then, perhaps, conditions aren’t as bad as the statistics suggest. After starting the week on a reasonably positive foot, the gains on the JSE all share fizzled out in late trade on Monday following last week’s 1.11% drop as Donald Trump’s election as US president caused severe emerging market jitters. Analysts are deciphering what to expect next, but seemingly there is only one certainty: volatility will continue, with a real possibility that it could carry on for four years, as the Financial Times said at the weekend. There are a number of permutations that can be factored in, such as a scenario of fiscal stimulus, together with protectionist policies in the US, affecting all markets. Or higher interest rates could become the norm, causing lower growth. For the moment, there is simply no market script to follow after Trump’s election, bar a simplistic upside or downside. On the positive side, emerging markets did recover on Monday as risk-on sentiment returned. But some rebound was bound to happen in any case after general retailers retreated 5.19% in the week of Trump’s election. Food and drug retailers lost 1.75% and property dropped 1.02%. But how strong this rebound will be is anyone’s guess. Trump will announce his policies only after his inauguration in mid-January, with some vague noises on construction spending and deporting immigrants the only clues for now. Broadly, if Trump’s protectionist policies are implemented, those JSE sectors with a large percentage of foreign shareholders, such as retailers and banks, would be affected negatively, which is precisely what happened last week, and more so if this policy is accompanied by extensive fiscal stimuli. Then again, if Trump turns out to be more moderate than expected, last week’s retraction may be no more than a blip. • Neels Blom edits Company Comment (blomn@bdlive.co.za)