Two men who were filmed allegedly forcing a black man into a coffin in a video that went viral on social media declined to apply for bail as they fear for their lives‚ the Middelburg Magistrate's Court heard on Wednesday. Willem Oosthuizen and Theo Martins Jackson face charges of assault with the intent to cause grievous bodily harm. Their alleged vicitm‚ Victor Rethabile Mlotshwa‚ was also in court. Magistrate Jongilizwe Dumehleli postponed the case to January 25 2017 after Oosthuizen and Jackson’s legal representative‚ Christo Geldenhuys‚ said they feared for their lives following a huge outcry from the public. The video was filmed at JM de Beer Boerdery next to the Komati Power Station‚ near Middelburg in Mpumalanga. Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) spokesperson Mbuyiseni Ndlozi said it was ironic that the two men had applied for bail on Monday but made a sudden u-turn after the red berets’ “exposed” the incident. “It was only when the country began to express their disappointment that the state started to act. We cannot allow a situation where we live side by side with racists in our own country‚” said Ndlozi. Ahead of Wednesday’s proceedings‚ opposition parties put their differences aside and stood in solidarity‚ singing struggle songs and waving placards denouncing racism. However‚ after the postponement of the case‚ the ANC and EFF stood about 200m apart on either side of the court building‚ while DA supporters were scattered between those two camps. Mlotshwa took to the podium of the ANC’s truck and thanked the masses for coming out to support him. He was later prevented from addressing the media by ANC officials. #CoffinAssault was the top trending topic on Twitter in SA on Wednesday morning. The EFF said in a statement on Monday that the pair "took a video and put it up on social media for amusement after humiliating" Victor Rethabile Mlotshwa. "This humiliation can be based on nothing else but his blackness‚ which means it is in actual fact a humiliation of black people as a whole‚" the statement added. Malema on Monday used the incident to attack members of the clergy who were critical of his controversial statements‚ asking, "Where are statements from pastors and bishops condemning what white farmers did to this black man?" The Bishop of Johannesburg, Dr Steve Moreo, had reprimanded Malema for his vitriolic attack on white South Africans following a court appearance in Newcastle on charges under the Riotous Assemblies Act a week earlier. "We are not calling for the slaughtering of white people — at least for now‚" Malema told supporters last Monday. Such language had no place in a free democracy, said Bishop Moreo in a statement published by the Anglican Communion News Service last Wednesday. "Malema’s vitriolic attack on his fellow white South Africans is sad and a stark reminder that the naked sin of racism is alive and well in SA. It is a reminder that racism is as damaging whether articulated by black or white and is no different to the corruption and greed of many in our country — all of which is decaying our land right now‚" he said. "It is particularly shameful to see it manifest in a person such as Malema." TMG Digital