Prosecutions head Shaun Abrahams was met with some annoyance when he gave a detailed explanation for why criminal charges had been laid against Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan. But the explanation was revealing. It warrants a closer look, to assess whether the costly debacle was a good faith process, albeit a bungle, or something more nefarious. Abrahams on Monday said he had decided to drop the fraud charges against Gordhan, former South African Revenue Service (SARS) commissioner Oupa Magashula and former acting commissioner Ivan Pillay after their "representations". After the representations — submissions and documents — Abrahams said he had become convinced that it would have been impossible to prove Gordhan, Pillay and Magashula knew the law was being broken and that they intended to commit fraud. A fraudulent intention is a requirement for a conviction. A crucial document appeared to be a 2009 memorandum from SARS legal officer Vlok Symington, which cleared the early retirement legally. The memo suggested that the three had acted on legal advice. Symington is the same SARS official who was in October held against his will by the Hawks and Commissioner Tom Moyane’s bodyguard. Abrahams was categorical that neither he nor the original prosecuting decision-makers — acting head of the Priority Crimes Litigation Unit Torie Pretorius SC and Gauteng director of public prosecutions Sibongile Mzinyathi — had seen the memorandum prior to the bringing of charges. Abrahams spent 30 minutes of his briefing justifying why, in the view of the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA), the terms of Pillay’s retirement were unlawful, referring to the rules of the Government Employees Pension Fund. Freedom Under Law and the Helen Suzman Foundation had argued in court papers that there was nothing unlawful about the terms of Pillay’s retirement. But lawyers disagree on what the law means every day. The real question is how, in the thinking of the NPA, an incorrect interpretation of pension fund rules then morphed into a criminal act. In count 1 on the ( withdrawn) charge sheet, Gordhan is said to have acted fraudulently because he misrepresented that SARS was liable to pay Pillay’s early retirement penalty, when he "well knew" it was not liable. However, when asked about evidence for the misrepresentation and fraudulent intention, Abrahams went from fulsome to reticent, his only answer that he was satisfied that there was a case to answer. Abrahams referred to a "vastly experienced [human resources] specialist" in SARS who had raised concerns about Pillay’s early retirement, saying it could set a precedent. But the high water mark of this specialist’s concern was that it would be unwise to grant the request. Nowhere did the specialist say it would be unlawful. Abrahams also referred to a statement the Hawks had obtained from a "remunerations and benefits executive" at SARS, who said there was no legal framework for the arrangement. But Abrahams did not say that any of the three charged were aware of this opinion. On the other side of the scale was a statement by Gordhan, prior to the charges being laid, that he had enquired at the public service department whether the early retirement arrangement would be lawful and had been assured it was. Perhaps the NPA had more evidence than it disclosed, even when asked directly. But based on what is publicly known, the NPA would have needed more than it appears it had to make the decision to prosecute.