African Bank posted R335m in operating profit for its 2016 financial year, pleasantly surprising shareholders and other affected parties who would have been expecting millions of rand in losses forecast by the curator of its predecessor bank, which had failed in 2014.The bank, which was relaunched in April, released its maiden results on Tuesday."It was much better than planned, which is great," said CEO Brian Riley. "We got involved with the buyback plan, we saved on interest &hellip; the cost of financing reduced."Tom Winterboer, who was appointed curator of the former African Bank after it hit a liquidity crisis in 2014, said earlier in 2016 in a memorandum to investors who wished to swap their debt in the old African Bank for bonds in the new bank that the new bank was expected to make an operating loss of R280m in its first year.The bank has bought back bonds &mdash; mainly listed on foreign markets &mdash; worth R11.7bn as part of its liability management plan, saving R2.3bn in interest charges through to 2022. Its interest savings for the year were R251m. But its largest saving came from lower-than-forecast credit impairments, as its stricter lending policy kicked in, and it tightened lending to underperforming borrowers.Early in November, ratings agency Moody&rsquo;s said it expected nonperforming loans in the domestic banking system to increase to about 4% by the end of 2017, from 3.2% in June 2016. This is expected to affect profitability as banks increased bad-debt provision.African Bank has covered 63.7% of its R27.6bn gross loan book against impairments, with nonperforming loans &mdash; accounts in arrears for more than four months &mdash; standing at 31.5% of the book. It incurred R362m in credit impairment charges for the year.The bank reported a pretax loss of R1.6bn for the period, R312m better than forecast.It has amassed R12.9bn in cash, which finance chief Gustav Raubenheimer says it may spend on buying back debt. "We sit with cash, now we would be interested in buying back early-maturity debt if the price is good for us [and] if there is no other use for the cash," he said.African Bank has just more than R10bn in debt due to mature in the next 18 to 30 months. Raubenheimer said most of it was held locally. "This could unlock further profit in liability management," he said.The bank also planned to invest in scaling up its direct credit business by early 2017, with the launch of its transactional banking offering following late in that year.It has already clinched a number of partnerships a key enabler for its five-year performance plan.African Bank branches offer extra-value loans to customers in partnership with retail groups Edcon and Hi-Fi Corporation."Let s say in the most extreme case, you take a R20,000 loan. Then R10,000 would be cash, R5,000 would be loaded on an Edcon card, and R5,000 on a Hi-Fi Corporation card," said Riley.The bank distributes the cards on behalf of the retail groups as a secondary credit provider. It is looking to expand the offering from its current client base of 3,000 customers.It also planned to launch a "broader range" of insurance products, expanding from its current credit life offering, but Riley was unable to go into further detail as the bank was in continuing negotiations."There will be partnerships," he said. These would feed into its five-year target of R300m in noninterest income that it hoped to earn mainly from insurance, he said.