Anglo American’s share price shot up on Tuesday as analysts reported on comments from CE Mark Cutifani indicating a subtle shift in Anglo’s thinking about asset disposals. It now intends to hold on to some of its mines for a bit longer, generating cash and selling them for suitable value. JP Morgan Cazenove reported Cutifani as saying that Anglo wanted to reduce its exposure to SA to below 30% of earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation from about 50% and that Anglo was "open-minded about how to get there". At the end of 2015 and early in 2016, when the global commodity market was weak and uncertain, Cutifani outlined a strategy of disposing of the company’s bulk commodity assets, such as iron ore, thermal and metallurgical coal, and nickel, and focusing on just platinum, copper and diamonds. In 2016 alone, Anglo has sold six assets and announced the sale of two more. It has closed two mines and put another two into care and maintenance, bringing its portfolio down to 42 assets. Cutifani told analysts during a visit to its southern African mines this week of a change in strategy. The "quality assets" in coal, nickel, iron ore and manganese would be "managed for cash and quality of returns" and "opportunistic investments" would be made to improve returns, but the assets would be sold if the deal was "value accretive", analysts reported. "Now that we are doing so much better on costs and productivity, and as market conditions have improved, we can afford to be a lot tougher on the prices we want for our assets," Cutifani said on Tuesday. Anglo expected the Chinese market to soften in 2016. In the meantime it was under no pressure to sell mines, Cutifani said. Anglo had done the clean-up of its portfolio to 37 mines from 62, selling assets that did not meet its investment criteria. It now had the rump of good-quality, cash-generating mines outside its three favoured minerals left that it was in no rush to sell if it could not get the value it wanted, he said. Anglo was confident it would reduce its net debt to below $10bn by the end of 2016, Cutifani told analysts. Investec analyst Hunter Hillcoat said the changes were evidence that the mining industry had been forced into a strategic rethink in light of events during 2016, nearly all of which were completely unforeseeable. JP Morgan expected management to focus on copper, platinum and diamonds over the medium term, but other assets would be run for cash and prospective buyers would have to offer an attractive price. It said Anglo would want free movement of capital between its domestic and international balance sheets. Capital controls had partially contributed to Anglo’s restrained investment in SA since 1961, it said.