The final reviewed mining charter will be published next month, after a long process of consultations, the Department of Mineral Resources’ deputy director-general for mineral policy and promotion, Mosa Mabuza, said Wednesday. The industry will welcome the gazetting of the final charter, as it ends the uncertainty over the legislative framework governing the industry, after delays in finalising the charter and court action over the principle of once empowered, always empowered. Mabuza said some significant changes had been made to the original draft, which was gazetted in April for public comment with a further four-week consultation process being conducted in July. The final version was “materially different” from the original draft and took into account submissions made, Mabuza told Parliament’s mineral resources portfolio committee in a briefing on Wednesday. Final consultations were taking place with communities and traditional authorities, he said. In total 60 substantive submissions were received and Mabuza said changes had been made to the procurement and community development provisions of the draft. Procurement provisions Changes introduced since the draft was published are the provisions for procurement. Capital goods and consumable goods have been combined into one category of mining goods, with a higher target of 70% of the total procurement budget — excluding nondiscretionary spending — being channelled to locally manufactured goods from BEE-compliant companies. All locally manufactured goods would have to be independently validated by an entity such as the South African Bureau of Standards. A minimum of 30% of the element threshold — that is 21 percentage points — for goods must be sourced from black-owned and black-controlled small and medium enterprises; and a minimum of five percentage points of the target must be procured from companies in which black women and/or youth have a shareholding of 50% plus one share. A minimum of 44 percentage points of the target must be procured from companies that are at least at level 4 BEE plus 26% black ownership. A minimum of 80% of services must be sourced from BEE-compliant companies in which black shareholders own and control a minimum of 50% plus one share. Foreign suppliers — the definition of which has been refined from the previous multinationals — will be required to contribute 1% of the revenue generated from the South African mining industry towards the Mining Transformation and Development Agency. A minimum of 10 percentage points of the target must be procured from service companies in which black women hold and control a minimum of 50% plus one share; and a minimum of five percentage points from companies with a minimum of 50% plus one share owned and controlled by youth. The remaining 65 percentage points of the target must be procured from the companies that have at least 50 plus one share black ownership and control. Community development The revised charter also streamlines the community development element of the codes, placing more emphasis on socioeconomic development. The review of the charter was prompted by the need to bring it into line with the codes of good practice under the Broad Based Black Economic Empowerment Act. Mabuza said the Department of Trade and Industry had been approached to extend the 12-month exemption granted to the mining and petroleum sectors from the trumping clause of the act until end December, to allow the department to finalise its consultations on the charter. He said the department was continuing to work with the Chamber of Mines to secure an out of court settlement on the interpretation of the principle of once empowered, always empowered. Mabuza noted that the percentage set aside for mine community development had been prescribed in the charter "to ensure efficient and effective implementation". In terms of employment equity, boards of directors must have at least 50% black members with exercisable voting rights, while a minimum of 60% of senior management, 80% of middle management and 88% of junior managers must be black. Mining right holders will have to ensure a minimum of 40% black representation in the cadre of core and critical skills across the entire organisation. The reviewed mining charter proposes the establishment of a Mining Transformation and Development Agency to replace the social development fund and the ministerial skills development fund proposed in the initial draft. The agency will be responsible for skills, enterprise and supplier development, and will manage the 2% skills development levy paid by employers and the contribution of 1% made by foreign suppliers. Mabuza said the agency would be established 12 months after the publication of the reviewed mining charter.