The Formula One championship is currently hanging in the balance as the final race of the season in Abu Dhabi looms. Following this past weekend&rsquo;s drenched Brazilian Grand Prix where Lewis Hamilton (Mercedes) won, ahead of team-mate Nico Rosberg and Max Verstappen (Red Bull Racing), the championship will be decided in Abu Dhabi on November 27.Rosberg will have to finish at least third to clinch the championship, while Hamilton will have to win the race to achieve the same feat. Nonetheless, it was Verstappen who displayed the most tenacity at Interlagos, having moved from 14th position to third in just 12 laps.It was also the Valencian MotoGP where Jorge Lorenzo (Movistar Yamaha MotoGP) won the MotoGP class ahead of Marc Marquez (Repsol Honda Team) in second and Andrea Iannone (Ducati Team) in third. The Moto2 class yielded a win for Johann Zarco (Ajo Motorsport Kalex), from Thomas Luthi (Garage Plus Interwetten Kalex) and Franco Morbidelli (Estrella Galicia 0,0 marc VDS Kalex).SA&rsquo;s Brad Binder (Red Bull KTM Ajo), who was recently crowned 2016 Moto3 champion, romped to top spot in Valencia. He was followed by Joar Mir (Leopard Racing KTM) and Andrea Migno (Sky Racing Team VR46 KTM).Tough battles and close racing characterised the 2016 SA National Cross-Country Motorcycle and Quad Championship and the various class champions had to work hard for their crowns. After six events across SA, including three days of racing in Botswana, competitors can look back on a testing season and hard-earned points.In the motorcycle category, two Botswana riders claimed their crowns (Ross Branch and Dartagnan Lobjoit) with both winning a South African national cross-country title for the first time. Branch (Brother Leader Tread KTM), a multiple South African motocross champion, took the OR1 (Open Class) title ahead of defending champion Kenny Gilbert (Kargo Racing Husqvarna), with five points separating them. Altus de Wet (BCR Arrow Yamaha Racing) rounded off the podium with Michael Pentecost (Proudly Bidvest Yamaha), who took the early lead in the class after winning the first two rounds, fourth.Branch&rsquo;s team-mate, Louw Schmidt, defended his OR2 (250cc) title. He claimed four victories during the rest of the season. Cameron Becker (KTM Centurion Liqui Moly Racing) led the class during the first half of the season and finished second with Brendon Fourie (Sherco SA Racing) finishing third ahead of former champion Jaycee Nienaber (Super Moose Racing KTM) in fourth.The Senior Class title was on a knife&rsquo;s edge the whole season before defending champion Juan "Bollie" van Rooyen (Brother Leader Tread KTM) claimed it for the third consecutive year. Early class leader Wynand Kleynhans (Yamaha) was a model of consistency and finished runner-up six times. Only four points separated him from Van Rooyen, whose five consecutive race victories ensured him the title. Lodewyk Jansen van Vuuren (KTM Centurion Liqui Moly Racing) was third.In the new 125cc class, scholar Ryan Pelser (KTM) claimed three wins after a problematic start to the season that saw him not finishing the opening round. He took the title ahead of another scholar, Janco Pienaar (KTM), with the experienced Izak Mans (Droomers Yamaha) in third.In the quad category, two former Dakar Rally participants won national titles. Hannes Saaijman (Yamaha), who finished in the top 10 in the Dakar in 2015, took the National Quad Championship title despite missing the opening round. He was followed by Johan Oosthuizen (Vans Racing Division Yamaha), who made his debut in the national series, with Andr&eacute; Park (Yamaha) in third spot.