When the Reserve Bank&rsquo;s monetary policy committee (MPC) last met two months ago, it didn&rsquo;t just repeat its comments about pressing the pause button on interest rates, but shifted its stance to indicate that it might be reaching the end of the interest rate hiking cycle.Going into this week&rsquo;s MPC meeting, it&rsquo;s not at all clear that the end is nigh. And though the inflation outlook may be looking better, we shouldn&rsquo;t expect the Bank to look at starting to cut interest rates any time in the near future.The reasons are both global and local. Globally, Donald Trump&rsquo;s election victory has turned financial markets upside down, driving the dollar stronger and lifting yields on US treasury bonds on the prospect that his administration could embark on an inflationary fiscal stimulus programme that could see the US Federal Reserve becoming more hawkish. As it is, Fed chairwoman Janet Yellen has all but written a guarantee that the Fed will hike rates at its December meeting, and markets are pricing that in.All of this is weighing on capital inflows to emerging markets including SA, and on the rand dollar exchange rate, which has already taken strain. Higher US yields and the prospect that US monetary policy will normalise faster than expected could well mean the yield advantage that SA and other emerging markets have enjoyed will dwindle, and the capital flows that we have come to rely on could be at risk; any suggestion of a South African interest rate cut would only make that worse. The MPC might even have to look at rate hikes again if global markets turn against us.Against this is the possibility that despite its antitrade bias, the Trump administration might prove to be positive for US and global growth and even for commodity prices, all of which could be good for SA&rsquo;s growth prospects. But the degree of uncertainty is extremely high, as is the degree of market volatility, and the MPC will no doubt want to tread cautiously.That is especially so because the local picture is quite murky, too. The inflation outlook has been improving, particularly because the rand had been strengthening. And the recent heavy rains are a good signal that the drought is ending and that food prices will start to subside over the next year. Given that food is a big part of the inflation basket, that means inflation could come down meaningfully in 2017, off 2016 s high base. Citi Research argues too that lower food price inflation would particularly benefit low-income groups, because food prices are such a big part of their spending basket, and that could give a boost to consumer spending. That would help to provide a boost to SA s growth prospects.However, in a world of such uncertainty and volatility, there are no guarantees that the inflation outlook for the next year or two will indeed improve as expected.A big added risk is the prospect of a downgrade to SA s credit ratings within the next couple of weeks. That could further hit investor confidence and damage the rand and growth prospects.That is why it makes sense for the MPC not just to hold on rates but to make it clear that we shouldn t expect a cut any time soon. Indeed, a return to hiking is even possible if things go badly for SA.The trouble is that whatever the committee says or does, it will make little difference to SA s very sad growth prospects. Even in 2017, growth is unlikely to lift much beyond 1%. The long-promised structural reforms have never been more urgent. And that s not (just) because of the ratings agencies but because the country needs them if we are to tackle unemployment, poverty and inequality.The government, labour and business need to ensure, collectively, that those reforms start to happen soon.