The South African Local Government Association (Salga) says it is ready for its much touted upcoming conference, where top government officials are expected to participate. "It’s all systems go for us. We are expecting almost 2,000 delegates and guests from all municipalities across the country, representatives from provincial and national government, members of the media and international dignitaries," said Salga’s executive manager of Parliamentary affairs Lance Joel in a statement on Friday. The conference is meant to provide participants with a platform to share experiences between the three spheres of government on topics pertinent to local government. At the top of the list of delegates is President Jacob Zuma who will close the conference on Thursday, while his deputy, Cyril Ramaphosa, is due to give the opening address in Sandton on Tuesday. The conference will also be attended by the leadership of the Commonwealth Local Forum. Salga said 218 of SA's 257 municipalities had confirmed their attendance for the conference, while 983 municipality delegates had registered. The provinces that saw 100% municipal registration were Gauteng and the Free State, 96% of Limpopo's municipalities are also expected and 95% of the Eastern Cape and Mpumalanga's municipalities will be in attendance. Salga will also use the conference as an opportunity to pilot its in-house news agency. In a statement Salga spokesman Tahir Sema said the agency would: "Produce informative and newsworthy stories to enhance the general profile of Salga and local government. But most importantly, it will serve to inform and educate the public and members about the good story of local government. This will give rise to an alternative narrative, one that is beneficial to local government projects." Last month the association, which is chaired by former Johannesburg mayor Parks Tau, found itself on the receiving end of bad news after the City of Johannesburg said it was considering pulling out of the association. The DA had previously cited too much influence in Salga being in the hands of the African National Congress as the reason it was considering withdrawing. However, the party appears to be staying put in the association, for now. © Business Day 2016