SA under-23 coach Owen da Gama and his under-20 counterpart, Thabo Senong, are also set to be shown the door after suspended Bafana Bafana mentor Ephraim "Shakes" Mashaba’s expected sacking this week. Mashaba is set to be fired this week after appearing before the South African Football Association’s (Safa) disciplinary committee on Tuesday. Business Day has learnt that under-17 coach Molefi Ntseki is the only national team coach who will escape the guillotine. The contracts of Da Gama and Senong — who double as Mashaba’s assistants at Bafana level — are linked to Mashaba’s agreement with Safa. Da Gama, who took charge of Bafana on an interim basis in the friendly international against Mozambique on Tuesday following Mashaba’s suspension, will not have helped his chances of survival after he pledged allegiance to Mashaba. He said he hoped Mashaba would be restored to his position after his suspension. "Continuity always favours whatever you are in‚" Da Gama was quoted as saying. "So we would hope for continuity and not change things a lot." Mashaba’s dismissal appears to be a mere formality and the two parties are set to part ways 28 months into a contract that was supposed to end after the 2018 World Cup in Russia. Recordings of his many skirmishes with the media will be used against him in his disciplinary hearing. The video clip of Safa communications official Mahlomola Morake and SABC journalist Kwena Moabelo trying to calm down a visibly seething Mashaba will come back to haunt him. Mashaba was suspended last week after he furiously wagged his finger at senior Safa officials — who included president Danny Jordaan‚ CEO Dennis Mumble‚ national executive committee members and other Safa employees — after Bafana beat Senegal 2-1 in a 2018 World Cup qualifier last Saturday. Mashaba’s utterances after Bafana arrived in Durban in October to face Ghana in a friendly international also infuriated his employers. Bafana had played a 2018 World Cup qualifier against Burkina Faso a couple of days earlier, and Mashaba was upset that his team was not afforded a charter plane from Ouagadougou to Durban. "We are not getting support‚" he was quoted as saying at the time. "If I take everyone back to the 2015 Africa Cup of Nations qualifiers‚ the reason we qualified is that we travelled on charter flights for all the games. "Now we arrive a day before the game from Burkina Faso. No training‚ nothing …. Yet people expect the boys to run and win." The comments put his employers in a tight spot as the charter flights to which he was referring were hired in the months before Safa entered into a partnership with South African Airways. Mamelodi Sundowns coach Pitso Mosimane‚ former Ajax Cape Town mentor Roger de Sa and Cape Town City’s Eric Tinkler have emerged as strong contenders to replace Mashaba. TMG Digital