Now that Donald Trump has unexpectedly won the US presidency, it is an open question whether he will govern in accordance with his campaign’s radical populism or adopt a pragmatic, centrist approach. If he governs in accordance with the campaign that got him elected, we can expect market scares in the US and around the world, as well as potentially significant economic damage. But there is good reason to expect that he will govern very differently. A radical populist Trump would scrap the Trans-Pacific Partnership, repeal the North American Free Trade Agreement and impose high tariffs on Chinese imports. He would build his US-Mexico border wall; deport millions of undocumented workers; restrict visas for the skilled workers needed in the tech sector; and fully repeal Obamacare. Overall, a radical Trump would significantly increase the US budget deficit. He would sharply reduce income taxes on corporations and wealthy individuals. And while he would broaden the tax base and encourage companies to repatriate foreign profits, his plan would not be revenue-neutral. He would increase spending on infrastructure, and his tax cuts for the rich would reduce government revenue by $9-trillion over a decade. A radical Trump would also drastically change the monetary policy approach, first by replacing US Federal Reserve chairwoman Janet Yellen with a monetarist hawk and then by filling current and upcoming Fed board vacancies with more of the same. Moreover, he would repeal what he could of the 2010 Dodd-Frank financial reforms, cut alternative energy subsidies and environmental regulations, and slash any other regulations that supposedly hurt big business. Finally, a radical Trump’s foreign policy would destabilise America’s alliances and escalate tensions with rivals. His protectionist stance could incite a global trade war, and his insistence that allies pay for their own defence could lead to dangerous nuclear proliferation while diminishing US leadership on the world stage. But it is more likely that Trump will pursue pragmatic, centrist policies. For starters, Trump is a businessman who relishes the "art of the deal", so he is by definition more of a pragmatist than a blinkered ideologue. His choice to run as a populist was tactical and does not necessarily reflect deep-seated beliefs. Indeed, Trump is a wealthy property mogul who has lived his entire life among other rich businessmen. He is a savvy marketer who tapped into the political zeitgeist by pandering to working-class Republicans and "Reagan Democrats". Once in office, Trump will throw symbolic red meat to his supporters while reverting to the traditional supply-side, trickle-down economic policies Republicans have favoured for decades. Trump’s vice-presidential choice, Mike Pence, is an establishment Republican politician, and his campaign’s economic advisers were wealthy businessmen, financiers, property developers and supply-side economists. What’s more, he is reportedly already considering mainstream Republicans for his cabinet, including Newt Gingrich, Bob Corker, Jess Sessions and former Goldman Sachs executive Steven Mnuchin (who also advised his campaign). The traditional Republicans and business leaders Trump will probably appoint will shape his policies. The executive branch adheres to a decision-making process whereby relevant departments and agencies determine the risks and rewards of given scenarios and then furnish the president with a limited menu of policy options from which to choose. Given Trump’s inexperience, he will be all the more dependent on his advisers. Trump will also be pushed more to the centre by Congress, with which he will have to work to pass any legislation. House speaker Paul Ryan and the Republican leadership in the Senate have more mainstream Republican views than Trump on trade, migration and budget deficits. Meanwhile, the Democratic minority in the Senate will be able to filibuster any radical reforms that Trump proposes, especially if they touch the third rail of American politics: social security and Medicare. Trump will also be checked by the separation of powers, relatively independent government agencies such as the Fed, and a free press. But the market itself will be Trump’s biggest constraint. If he tries to pursue radical populist policies, the response will be swift and punishing: stocks will plummet, the dollar will fall, investors will flee to US Treasuries, gold prices will spike. If, however, Trump blends more benign populist policies with mainstream pro-business ones, he will not face a market fallout. Now that he has won the election, there is little reason for him to choose populism over safety. The effects of a pragmatic Trump presidency would be far more limited than in the radical scenario. He would still ditch the Trans-Pacific Partnership — but so would Hillary Clinton. He claimed that he would repeal the North American Free Trade Agreement but he is more likely to try to tweak it as a nod to blue-collar workers. And even if a pragmatic Trump wanted to limit imports from China, his options would be limited by a recent World Trade Organisation ruling against "targeted dumping" tariffs on Chinese goods. Trump will probably build his wall on the Mexican border, even though fewer new immigrants are arriving than in the past. But he is likely to crack down only on undocumented immigrants who commit violent crimes, rather than trying to deport 5-million to 10-million people. A pragmatic Trump would still generate fiscal deficits, though smaller than in the radical scenario. If he follows the congressional Republicans’ proposed tax plan, for example, revenue would be reduced by $2-trillion only over a decade. To be sure, the policy mix under a pragmatic Trump administration would be ideologically inconsistent but it would be far more acceptable to investors – and the world – than the radical agenda he promised his voters. © Project Syndicate 2016 • Roubini is CEO of Roubini Macro Associates and professor of economics at the Stern School of Business, New York University.