FW de Klerk would be jailed if EFF leader Julius Malema ever becomes president of SA."De Klerk must pray that I don&rsquo;t become president. If I do&sbquo; I will lock him up for many years for killing black people&sbquo;" Malema told supporters outside a Bloemfontein court on Monday morning.His case&sbquo; on charges under the Riotous Assemblies Act&sbquo; was postponed until June 5 next year while he challenges the constitutionality of the legislation.Malema faced similar charges in the Newcastle Magistrate&rsquo;s Court in KwaZulu-Natal last Monday&sbquo; and comments he made after that appearance drew the ire of the FW de Klerk Foundation.The foundation said it would request an urgent meeting with the South African Human Rights Commission to discuss Malema&rsquo;s utterance: "They found peaceful Africans here. They killed them! They slaughtered them&sbquo; like animals! We are not calling for the slaughter of white people&sbquo; at least for now".Malema was unrepentant on Monday. "I did not call for the slaughter of white people. If I want to&sbquo; I will. However&sbquo; they slaughtered black people," he said.His "wish is to see De Klerk in jail&sbquo; our brothers and sisters are in unidentified graves because of De Klerk".Malema told the gathering: "I m not for reconciliation but for justice. I will never kill white people. We are asking politely that they return our land. If not I cannot guarantee peace."The EFF, meanwhile, said it supported all struggles of the landless people to occupy land."All the struggles of the landless people must be supported actively by the EFF. There are people who have proper houses because they identified the land and occupied it," EFF deputy president Floyd Shivambu said on Monday after Malema s court appearance."We reaffirm the conference resolution that we are going to support land occupation " Shivambu said outside the court.Shivambu attacked the prosecution for its decision to charge Malema for the statements he made in 2014."Then they take the 1956 act. It was an act that was going to deal with the riot of black people. That law which the commander-in-chief is charged with is about protecting Europeans against non-Europeans " Shivambu said.He said Malema s defence had challenged the constitutionality of the Riotous Assemblies Act."We assure you we are going to emerge victorious. We are going to annul that Riotous Assemblies Act. We are going to reverse all apartheid legislation that exists " Malema said.Shivambu said there were still a number of apartheid laws that referred to black people as natives and non-Europeans."One thing for sure is that our programme is not going to be stopped by apartheid laws. That is the main reason why the EFF was formed to take forward the struggle that was not completed by liberation movement. We are going to reclaim the land in our lifetime."AfriforumAfriforum said Malema should be held accountable for urging his supporters to illegally occupy land two years ago."We are happy the wheels of justice have started to turn. Julius Malema should be held accountable. Today was the start of that process " Afriforum s Kallie Kriel said outside the court on Monday."We are in favour of land restitution but people like Malema can t be making a sweeping statement about stolen land."Kriel accused Malema of "stirring up" emotions with his statements.TMG Digital