Initial short-term losses in the currency and bond markets in the event of a sovereign credit rating downgrade will not destabilise the country’s domestic financial markets, the Reserve Bank says. SA is included in various global bond indices such as the Citibank World Government Bond index, JP Morgan Bond indices and the Barclays Global Aggregrate index. Global fund managers benchmark their portfolios against these indices. Reserve Bank governor Lesetja Kganyago said "based on the exclusion criteria of the various global bond indices in which SA is included, a downgrade to subinvestment grade does not pose a short-to medium-term risk of SA being removed from any of the global indices". According to the second edition of the Reserve Bank’s Financial Stability Review published on Thursday, for SA to be excluded from the world government bond index would require double downgrades from Moody’s and Fitch ratings agencies and a triple downgrade from S&P Global Ratings. All three ratings agencies rank the sovereign rating on investment grade. They will review the country’s ratings from November to December. The Reserve Bank said the country’s deteriorating economic and fiscal outlook, including political risk, placed pressure on the country’s sovereign credit rating. But the Reserve Bank had since the last Financial Stability Review revised its outlook on a downgrade to medium from a medium-to-high outlook. Kganyago said this was because of a more favourable outlook from Moody’s, which recently said there was a less than 50% chance it would downgrade SA when it publishes its review on November 25. The Reserve Bank also said South African banks had been subjected to a stress test in the case of a downgrade to sub-investment grade. "The results indicate that banks are adequately capitalised to deal with a downgrade to subinvestment grade," Kganyago said. "Although they have eased, standards remain in a tightening bias," Hendrik Nel, head of the financial stability department at the Reserve Bank said. The bias was expected to continue into the next quarter, Nel said. Emerging market bank-lending conditions remained tight in the first six months of 2016. While credit standards improved, they remained below the neutral 50-point index level suggesting a tightening bias. For the South African banking sector all categories of loans recorded a moderation in growth during the past eight months. Meanwhile, Kganyago said Donald Trump’s surprise victory in the US presidential election would have little effect on SA’s monetary policy stance and the trajectory of interest rates. "To the extent that this is a one-off event it has no impact on rates trajectory. To the extent that it feeds itself into domestic price formation and it is sustained and leads to second-round effects, monetary policy has got to react to that."