The ANC’s national disciplinary committee has found Western Cape chairperson Marius Fransman guilty on two counts of misconduct, and has suspended his party membership for five years. Fransman was found guilty of abusing his office for the purpose of attempting to obtain a sexual favour from Louisa Wynand, and for making public statements which brought the ANC into disrepute, the national disciplinary committee said on Thursday. “The national disciplinary committee found both charges to be very serious and suspended his ANC membership for five years.” It said Fransman did not attend the disciplinary hearing and showed no remorse for his misconduct. Earlier this year, the ANC asked Fransman to step aside after Wynand accused of him of sexual harassment. However, there was confusion about his official status within the party until days before August 3 local government polls. This was not helped by Fransman appearing on the ANC campaign trail with President Jacob Zuma and party elections head Nomvula Mokonyane. When asked about Fransman’s status within the party, Mokonyane said at the time that he had been reinstated. But the mother body contradicted this, saying his disciplinary hearing would go ahead as an integrity commission report had recommended this be done. Fransman then approached the courts, but later backed down. According to the national disciplinary committee on Thursday, Fransman showed “no political understanding” of one of the ANC’s fundamental objectives, which was the support for, and advancement of, women’s emancipation. “As a provincial leader in the ANC, he should have known about the triple oppression of South African women and the giant strides being made by the ANC to accord women their rights and help them to overcome their oppression. “The charged member deliberately misled the public when he said that he did not receive documents to enable him to prepare for his disciplinary hearing, whereas in truth he was given all the relevant documents he needed to prepare his defence,” the national disciplinary committee said. It said there was no room in the ANC for leaders and members, irrespective of position or seniority, who showed scant regard for the values and objectives of the ANC and who consciously chose to define themselves outside the organisation, in breach of their membership oath.