The global platinum supply deficit is forecast to narrow sharply this year and next as demand flattens and then falls. Lower demand will offset, to an extent, the decline in supply, most notably in SA, and the removal of a glut of Chinese recycled platinum jewellery, according to data released by the World Platinum Investment Council. The council said, based on research it commissioned from SFA Oxford, the world market would be in a 170,000oz deficit this year and 100,000oz deficit next year. This compares with a 360,000oz shortfall last year and more than 700,000oz in each of the two preceding years. The council, up two years ago by six South African platinum mining companies, is mandated to release data regularly to the market and encourage investment in the industrial and precious metal. This year, total global platinum supply is forecast to fall to 7.87-million ounces from 7.905-million ounces last year, mainly because of declines from SA, where mines are temporarily shut by the state to address safety concerns, and Russia. Recycled platinum supply is seen rising 9% to 1.86-million ounces, driven mainly by Chinese jewellers returning unbought stock. Overall, SA is forecast to produce 230,000oz less platinum this year. Demand will rise 3% for the full year to 8.04-million ounces. Demand for platinum in autocatalysts will remain flat at 3.39-million ounces and there will be small increases in industrial and investment demand. Worryingly, jewellery demand is forecast to fall by 10% or 300,000oz to 2.58-million ounces because of slowing demand from China. For 2017, total global supply is forecast to fall yet again, dropping 2% to 7.745-million ounces as metal from Chinese jewellery recycling returns to more normal levels. Supply from SA should grow 2% to 4.3-million ounces with two new mines and two replacement shafts coming into production. Next year’s demand will slip to 7.845-million ounces from this year's 8.04-million ounces, with big declines in investment, petroleum and autocatalyst demand next year. Refined platinum from SA, the world's largest source of mined metal, fell 14% in the third quarter of this year compared with the previous quarter because of safety stoppages and replenishment of producer inventories run down to fill contracts when mines were unexpectedly shut. This took a total 235,000oz out of South African mined supply. In the first nine months of the year South African supply was down 1%. With the continued deficits, the opaque above-ground stocks are expected to fall to 2.145-million ounces this year and 2.045-million ounces next year. The size of these stocks — which are held by investors in vaults and have been blamed in part for the lack of price movement on the fundamentals in the market, which has shown years of deficits — were the best estimate SFA Oxford could come up with after scrutinising a host of data and metal flows around the world, said Trevor Raymond, the council’s director of research. The question in the market was whether these stock levels, which have halved over recent years as metal was supplied to fill the gap left by the market’s deficit and keeping prices stagnant, had reached a point where the holders of the metal were betting the market fundamentals would assert themselves in the pricing of the metal, he said.