SA’s mining production has pushed back into positive growth territory, breaking 11 months in a row of contraction. The sector has also made a significant contribution to overall GDP growth for the second quarter in a row — something which it had not been able to in the past 18 months. Mining production increased 3.4% year on year in September from an upwardly revised 0.1% in August (previously -0.2% year on year). The mining sector’s underperformance in 2016 has been blamed on rising operating costs, weaker commodity demand from China and low commodity prices. But the improved trade performance of precious metals, along with better commodity prices, has helped lift the sector’s output. The main contributors to the revival were the platinum group metals, which grew 10.5% year on year, iron ore which grew 11.7% year on year, and coal by 6.8% year on year. Gold production growth remained in the red, however, falling 7% year on year in September from August’s 8.4% contraction. BNP Paribas Securities economist Jeffrey Schultz noted that the avoidance of strike activity in the platinum sector in 2016 alongside the amicable three-year wage deal reached in October should provide some stability to the industry. “However, ongoing worries related to mineral policy amid what looks likely to be another bumpy ride for commodity prices [excluding gold] in the wake of the US presidential election outcome, means that SA’s mining sector still has many hurdles ahead to clear,” he said. Relatively weak global growth prospects are likely to continue to dog the sector for the remainder of 2016. Global growth is expected to increase to only around 3% in 2016. This would be the slowest pace of expansion since the 2008-09 financial crisis. “Suppressed global demand weakens the prospects for further significant commodity price recoveries in the near term,” said Investec economist Kamilla Kaplan. “These external developments are overlaid by domestic challenges pertaining to elevated operating costs, infrastructure constraints and policy and regulatory uncertainty.” But the good news in the mining sector could not be extended to the manufacturing industry. Production was stagnant in September compared with the same month a year ago, and declined from 2.2% growth in August. “The outlook for 2017 remains murky. Import-competing industries are likely to benefit from modest recoveries in fixed investment and consumer spending in 2017,” Nedbank’s economic unit said on Thursday. These industries, however, constitute a relatively small portion of the manufacturing sector. Export-orientated industries will continue to face challenges, it said. The bank said the downside risks to the world economy were likely to have increased given mounting popular opposition to free trade and growing public support for closed borders as reflected in Britain’s decision to leave the EU and in light of the election of Donald Trump as US president. 