London — Manchester United manager Jose Mourinho has been charged with misconduct for comments made to the referee during last weekend’s Premier League match against Burnley, the FA said on Tuesday. Mourinho was sent to the stands by referee Mark Clattenburg for the second half of the 0-0 draw at Old Trafford on Saturday after reportedly complaining about a penalty decision that did not go United’s way. "It is alleged that in or around the tunnel area at half-time he used abusive and/or insulting words towards a match official," the FA said. Mourinho was also charged with misconduct by the FA last week for comments he made about referee Anthony Taylor ahead of United’s Premier League game against Liverpool. He faces a touchline ban if the FA charge of using abusive or insulting words towards a match official is upheld. He has until the end of business on Friday to respond to the charge. Reuters Manchester United manager Jose Mourinho faces a touchline ban after being charged with misconduct for the second time in less than a week by the Football Association on Tuesday. The outspoken Portuguese’s latest brush with authority came after he was sent to the stands during Saturday’s frustrating goalless draw home to Burnley. Mourinho could now be hit with a ban if the FA charge of using abusive or insulting words towards a match official is upheld. He has until 6pm GMT on Friday to respond to the charge. The under-pressure United boss was dismissed at half-time for protesting too vehemently to the officials, having seen Matteo Darmian denied what the United manager felt was a penalty. "Jose Mourinho has been charged with misconduct following Manchester United’s game against Burnley on Saturday (29 October 2016)," the FA said in a statement. "It is alleged that in or around the tunnel area at half-time he used abusive and/or insulting words towards a match Official." Only last Thursday Mourinho was charged with misconduct over comments about referee Anthony Taylor ahead of United’s goalless draw against arch-rivals Liverpool. No stranger to disciplinary hearings during his two spells at Chelsea and in Spain and Italy, Mourinho had until Monday to respond to that charge. United finished at Old Trafford with 10 men after midfielder Ander Herrera was sent off in a result that added to the growing pressure on Mourinho, with the Red Devils without a win in four league games and eight points behind the leaders. A fine appears the most likely penalty for his comments about Taylor. Mourinho failed to attend the post-match press conference that followed the Burnley draw, with assistant Rui Faria speaking to reporters instead. Asked why Mourinho had been sent to the stands, Faria said: "I don’t know and I don’t think it is really important. I think what is important is what the referee will write in his report. I can’t give you more details." Reuters