What is life really like in SA? Given the pressing problems of unemployment, poverty and crime, it may be tempting to think life is miserable for the majority of South Africans. But analysts at the Institute of Race Relations (IRR) think it is an overly simplistic analysis and have delved deeply into the national condition to reach a series of contrary conclusions. A report the IRR has just released, Life in South Africa: Reasons for Hope, finds that murder rates have fallen, job numbers increased, more South Africans are going to university than ever before and living conditions have shown extraordinary levels of improvement. Consider for example that: • The number of new HIV/AIDS infections has halved since 1999; • The economy has grown 85% in real terms since 1994; • The number of people with jobs has doubled since 1994; • For every shack erected since 1994, 10 formal houses have been built; • Average growth in disposable income per head from 1994 to 2015 was 1.7% per year; • The proportion of South Africans in Living Standards Measure (LSM) categories 1–3 decreased 74% from 2001 to 2015, while the proportion with relatively high levels of socioeconomic development, in LSM categories 8–10, increased 53%; • The number of motor vehicles registered increased 79% from 1999 to 2016; and • The number of tertiary science and engineering graduates increased from 20,610 in 1994 to 55,574 in 2014. Critics will suggest that this is cherry picking a series of positive indicators that are not representative of the experience of most South Africans. But we think such a criticism is wrong on the facts. The improvements in employment, income and service delivery levels were substantive and lifted the living standards of millions of people. Critics may also say that not enough progress has been made, but that is a very different line of criticism from the allegation that very little has improved in SA after 1994 or even that social and economic circumstances have worsened. A great deal more must be done, but that is why it is so important to reflect honestly on the progress already made — in order to realise that there is a foundation to build on. It will be alleged that the data presented in our report are inconsistent with the levels of protest and instability in SA. We see no such inconsistency, believing rather that protests are symptomatic of a crisis of rising expectations not one of abject government failure. Finally, it will seem odd to many that a report of this nature has emerged from what is regarded as one of SA’s most critical and politically incorrect think-tanks. But that very political incorrectness and critical approach has allowed IRR analysts to identify the things that have gone right and to bring them to the attention of the public. It says a lot about how the national mood has shifted that it has become controversial to point to areas of progress. Our experience is that too many SA watchers oversimplify the country. On the one extreme of that oversimplification sits the rainbow nation and on the other the race war. These are essentially held out as SA’s choices. International and domestic observers alike are waiting for us to walk through one of those two doors. But the reality will always exist in a middle ground between the two, and good analysts are able to accept the truth in sets of apparently contradictory social and economic statistics without falling into the trap of thinking one to be correct and the other wrong. If we can help to bring that level of sophistication into media debates on SA, we think it will do a lot of good because it will force even SA’s most vociferous critics to concede that there are things that have gone right. Considering what was inherited in 1994, South Africans have found a way to work together across almost every area of social and economic development to make the country a better place than it was. There is much to be proud of. Building a better future will perhaps best be achieved by harnessing that success and sense of common purpose. • Bostock is a researcher at the IRR, a think-tank that promotes political and economic freedom.