Bid Corporation, the recent foodservice spin-off of the Bidvest Group, says overall trading conditions in the global industry remain positive, providing growth opportunities in all the company’s geographies. The company, which met with shareholders and analysts on Thursday to update them on market conditions, said that many of its international foodservice peers have reported improved results on good underlying market conditions. In addition, currency volatility has positively affected Bidcorp’s rand reported results. "Overall trading within Bidcorp for the first four months of financial … 2017 has been good and the positive momentum achieved in the financial year 2016 has continued," the company said in a statement. This had been achieved against a backdrop of zero food inflation in most operational geographies — except SA and Brazil — amid "relatively benign economic conditions globally". The depreciation of the rand against the euro and Australian dollar had more than offset the appreciation of the South African currency against sterling, following the Brexit referendum in the UK to leave the EU, Bidcorp added. "Overall the economy in the UK is growing and the sterling devaluation should further propel activity levels forward, benefiting from more tourists and local consumer spending." The highly fragmented UK foodservice market remained a growth opportunity. But western European growth remained low, although significantly higher growth in eastern Europe was boosting business. The Czech Republic and Slovakia markets had seen solid growth in the foodservice business. The firm also saw good growth in Poland. "Management remains focused on executing on the strategic plan to rebalance ... customer portfolios by focusing on the correct segments and on adding value to their customer offering through innovation and service delivery," Bidcorp said. The total market capitalisation of the former Bidvest Group had shot up more than 14% in early June after the listing of Bidcorp on the JSE. This had released new energy into the group’s foodservice business. Its mainly domestic industrial assets and Namibian operations stayed within the separately listed Bidvest Group. "SA is producing excellent results, contrary to the generally tough operating conditions and low GDP growth," Bidcorp said. But that exposure to the rest of Africa was hampered by a lack of credit amid a general foreign exchange crisis in the continent’s main minerals commodities-producing countries. "Bidcorp [shortly] will be undertaking a global rebranding exercise … which will be used to promote our image as ‘value-add food people’ rather than box movers," the company said. Mark Hodgson, an analyst at Avior Capital Markets, said the tone of the management update was "broadly reassuring" in terms of the effect of Brexit on the UK food business, which was mainly in the fresh foods category. "Bidcorp continues to steadily execute on its value-added strategy with a number of small bolt-on acquisitions done with no major acquisitions to date," he said.