Adelaide — To Stephen Cook went the glory in the third Test at Adelaide Oval on Sunday, even though the victory went to Australia to help stop their rot. Cook, 81 not out at stumps on Saturday, was last out for a grinding, doughty and probably career-saving 104 in SA’s second innings. Nought, 12, 23 and 40 were his other scores in the series, and even though he was on an upward curve he could not have been confident of retaining his place in December’s home series against Sri Lanka without banking a big effort in the second dig in Adelaide. Cook can now consider that job done, even though that relief might be dulled by knowing what it feels like to finish on the losing side for the first time in his six Tests. SA’s and Cook’s innings were ended with the visitors just 127 ahead — not enough to stop Australia from winning by seven wickets with a session left on the fourth day. Not that the result hurt SA too much: the series has been over as a contest since they won the second Test in Hobart almost two weeks ago. SA dominated in Perth and Hobart despite the loss of major players AB de Villiers and Dale Steyn to injury — a fact not lost on Faf du Plessis. "Those were massive blows, and before the series if you had told the South African team they would lose those two players they would say they had no chance to beat Australia," Du Plessis said. "The most pleasing thing is that everyone put their hand up. As a captain it’s so pleasing to see everyone fulfil their potential." The major gain for SA is the experience of having played a pink-ball, day/night Test — only the third yet staged. Soon, surely, this version will make its debut in SA. The fact that 125,993 people clicked through the Oval’s turnstiles tells us this idea’s time has come. "I think there are positive signs going forward, and I would definitely like to see it in SA," said Du Plessis. Despite the colour of the ball, the Adelaide match unfolded a lot more like cricket has for the past 139 years. That held true into Sunday’s play, when the visitors resumed on 194/6 and were dismissed early in the second hour with Mitchell Starc taking 4/80. Cook stood firm through the dismissals of Quinton de Kock and Vernon Philander as well as Australia taking the new ball to pull Josh Hazlewood through square leg for four. SA were all out 14 balls later when Starc nailed Cook’s off stump to put paid to an innings that had endured for 240 balls. David Warner and debutant Matt Renshaw got Australia’s run chase off to a solid start. But when the partnership was worth 64, miscommunication between the batsmen led to Warner being run out for 47. Two balls later Tabraiz Shamsi trapped Usman Khawaja in front for a duck. A stand of 61 between Renshaw and Steve Smith, who scored 40, took Australia to within two runs of victory. They won with four sessions left and Renshaw on 34 not out.