The Treasury recently released its socioeconomic impact assessment, a kind of cost-benefit analysis, of the Financial Sector Regulation Bill &mdash; the so-called "Twin Peaks" bill currently before Parliament. The Cabinet and MPs should reject this half-baked attempt outright and insist that it be returned whence it came, before SA has another self-imposed calamity visited upon it.According to Cabinet policy, a socioeconomic impact assessment must be carried out on all new proposed legislation.This is to enable parliamentarians and the public to form a proper objective understanding of the net benefits of all intended new legislation. Few assessments have been carried out in the past. An exception was the Financial Advisory and Intermediary Services Act 37 of 2002, which was justified almost entirely on the basis of the savings that were meant to be realised from a decline in policy lapses the act was imagined to engender.That decline never occurred. Since the intended net benefits of the legislation have never materialised, the legislation should long ago have been repealed.Instead, the financial advisers&rsquo; act has acquired an enormously expensive life all of its own. It now imposes direct deadweight costs on consumers conservatively estimated to be at least R600m a year, to say nothing of the much greater indirect costs they must now bear.The central purpose of the Twin Peaks bill is to rearrange the structure or architecture of SA&rsquo;s financial services regulation. It plans to split the existing single, cohesive, unfragmented, uncomplicated, easily understood regulatory system into two separate regulators or "peaks".Each regulator will not only be inscrutably intertwined with the other, but also with a plethora of other cabinet ministers, policy-setting bodies, councils, forums, committees, government departments and acts of Parliament.Apparently, under Twin Peaks there is to be a "prudential" regulator and a "market conduct" regulator. These two regulatory functions already exist under one regulator, the Financial Services Board (FSB).The impact assessment was expected to demonstrate why the proposed dual regulatory architecture is superior to the existing one and superior to all other alternatives. It does nothing of the kind.Vague, imprecise references are made to the "2008 global financial crisis", to the need for "proactive and intrusive" bureaucratic interventions, and to the need for a "more stable and inclusive" system. Yet it neither explains why Twin Peaks will provide the answer, nor why the existing simpler, far less costly system is incapable of providing exactly the same outcomes or cures for perceived ills.An impact assessment has not really been carried out at all and it looks very much like a repeat of the financial advisers&rsquo; act fiasco, except this time the failure will be many, many times more costly to the economy.The Twin Peaks impact assessment disgorges a series of justifications entirely unconnected to what could possibly be achieved by what appears in the bill.These unconnected ramblings do not even remotely indicate how the vague benefits claimed for it can be achieved by the complex new structure. No specific measurable objectives are given and there is no explanation as to why the very same objectives cannot be achieved by the existing structure.The impact assessment starts with a statement that "a stable and more inclusive financial sector is needed". This sentence contains two mutually exclusive (often mutually destructive) concepts. The first claims that "a stable financial sector" is needed. The second claims that "a more inclusive financial sector" is needed. Neither the bill itself nor the impact assessment indicates how, if Twin Peaks is implemented, a more "stable financial sector" will materialise. The statement is mere wishful thinking, entirely unconnected to the contents of the bill. Mankind has been dreaming of a stable financial sector for centuries but it remains elusive. Yet a "stable financial sector" appears to be the central justification for the Twin Peaks configuration of dual regulators.The second part of this specific justification is even more troubling. What it suggests is that Twin Peaks will give civil servants powers to force the financial sector to provide financial services to the poor.To those who understand that the subprime crisis (loans to people who could never be expected to repay them &mdash; actively encouraged, aided and abetted by government) caused the 2008 world financial crisis, it is this objective itself that has the potential to cause the next financial crisis.A stable financial system and a fully inclusive financial system may well be mutually exclusive. Moreover, it is doubtful whether a "more inclusive" financial sector is even a valid regulatory objective. It is by no means clear that it is prudent to have the financial sector press-ganged into providing services under the guise of "inclusivity" regulation. The financial sector will be damned if it does and damned if it does not. After having been actively encouraged to grant loans to the poor and to disregard previous credit bureau records, banks are all too frequently condemned for "reckless" lending. A regulatory objective of this kind could therefore prove to be destructive to the very "stability" it pretends to seek.However, notwithstanding the stated intention of Twin Peaks seeking "stability" and "inclusivity", the impact assessment provides absolutely no evidence whatsoever of why Twin Peaks will provide it. The same misguided objectives can just as readily be pursued under the existing unified system.New SystemNo more than a cursory analysis is required to appreciate that the existing unified system is far superior to the proposed Twin Peaks dual regulator system. SA has a single regulator with the insurance and banking markets holistically regulated. The new system is infinitely more complex, and it is immediately evident that it is simply unworkable. The system contains a superfluity of committees, forums, councils and boards, some of which are called into being only if and when there is a crisis.Prof Geoffrey Woods, who testified before the House of Lords economic affairs committee in the UK on what went wrong in 2008, said on the matter of intergovernment departmental committees: "On occasion the [tripartite system] functioned with jaw-dropping incompetence and chaos." The Twin Peaks system introduces the same plethora of impractical and inept committees.Yet it is claimed that Twin Peaks is currently recognised as "international best practice". This is simply not so. Britain and Australia have been experimenting with varying degrees of success. Holland has piloted a different version. No other country has attempted it.In addition, the impact assessment provides no proper cost-to-benefit analysis as is required. While costs are guessed at and immediately said to be incomplete, benefits have neither been enumerated nor in any way quantified. Details of how the costly Twin Peaks dual regulator structure is to be funded will only be revealed to Parliament in a bill that has yet to be placed before it. But the goal is clear: the massive Twin Peaks bureaucracy will be funded by levies imposed by the bureaucrats themselves. In other words, the Financial Sector Regulation Act and those to follow will empower civil servants to tax by decree without so much as a nod in Parliament.They are to be empowered to raise their own funds through regulatory levies and to pass their own "laws", euphemistically referred to as "legislative instruments".They will have their own "enforcement committees" that will impose their own fines, and keep and spend the proceeds themselves. They are what have been referred to as a unitary state within the state, violating the constitutional requirement of a proper separation of powers between legislature, executive and judiciary.The Financial Sector Regulation Bill makes the extraordinary proposition that the Reserve Bank should become the general prudential regulator of the entire financial market, including banks, insurers, collective investment schemes and the like. Yet the functions of the Reserve Bank are precisely defined in the Constitution. To make it a second general regulator under Twin Peaks would require a change to the Constitution. No such change has been proposed. The existing system of banks being holistically regulated by the central bank is proven to be infinitely more sensible than lumbering the central bank with the prudential regulation of all nonbanks and then setting the FSB loose on all the banks with their untested "proactive, pre-emptive, intrusive and inclusive" market conduct powers.&bull; Vivian is professor of finance and insurance in the Wits University School of Economic and Business Sciences.