London — Reynolds American Incorporated, the second-largest cigarette seller in the US, is seeking a higher price from British American Tobacco (BAT) after rejecting a $47bn buyout offer as too low, according to people familiar with the matter. The tobacco giants are in talks and BAT is willing to increase the offer slightly, said the people, who asked not to be named as the details were not public. BAT, which already owns 42% of Reynolds, disclosed its proposal to acquire the rest of the company on October 21. “This is playing out as we expected,” Mirco Badocco, an analyst at RBC Europe, said in a note. “We’ve always regarded the first offer as the initial step in the negotiation process and believe BAT will need to increase the offer price.” The transaction would let BAT overtake Philip Morris International as the world’s largest publicly traded tobacco business. It also would give the London-based company a strong foothold in the US and access to Reynolds’s leading electronic-cigarette position. China National Tobacco, run by China’s State Tobacco Monopoly Administration, is the biggest tobacco firm overall. BAT’s unsolicited cash-and-stock offer of $56.50 a share represented about a 20% premium to Reynolds’s closing price the previous day. But BAT only plans to pursue the deal with Reynolds’s support. “We see the BAT deal happening with an increased offer,” Jefferies International analyst Owen Bennett said in a note, as the two companies are “the perfect match”, given the attractiveness of the US market. The offer is the latest in a run of tobacco mergers, as companies facing smoking declines around the world seek to increase market share and create alternatives to traditional cigarettes. Reynolds completed its $25.9bn acquisition of Lorillard in June 2015. BAT has owned its current stake in Reynolds since the North Carolina-based company was created in 2004. It helped to fund Reynolds’s takeover of Lorillard, which helped BAT maintain its 42% stake in the Camel maker. BAT estimated the transaction would create cost synergies of about $400m. BAT CEO Nicandro Durante wrote in the offer letter that he would have preferred to propose the takeover confidentially, but it was required to announce the move for regulatory reasons. Bloomberg 