Runaway inflation has breached the Reserve Bank’s target band, but economists expect the monetary policy committee (MPC) to press pause on an interest rate hike when it meets on Thursday. Inflation for October came in at 6.4%, breaching the Bank’s 3%-6% target band for the ninth time in 2016, after reaching 6.1% in September. Economists had expected inflation to come in between 6.1% and 6.2%. The unexpected rise in inflation was fuelled by increases in food and transport costs, according to Statistics SA data published on Wednesday. Food inflation spiked 11.7% year on year and transport inflation shot up 4.3%. Although it is predicted that the Bank will hold off on hiking interest rates on Thursday, economists predict a 25 basis points hike in early 2017 if the US Federal Reserve raises rates in December. "It’s inevitable," KPMG economist Christie Viljoen said. He also said food inflation might edge higher, pointing to the fact that the rand had shed more than 7% since the last MPC meeting in September. Since January 2014, interest rates have risen six times by a cumulative 200 basis points. Reserve Bank governor Lesetja Kganyago said in October the Bank expected inflation to average 5.8% in 2017, from 6.4% in 2016. Peter Attard Montalto, emerging markets economist at Nomura, said inflation was expected to return to the target band from February but there was a strong risk that core inflation would rise. "Hence our view that rates cannot be cut over the forecast horizon, but there is a chance of rate hikes next year on rand weakness." Statistics SA said consumer price inflation, excluding food and petrol, was 5.8% year on year. Core inflation crept up to 5.7% from 5.6% in September. Stanlib chief economist Kevin Lings said: "It is unlikely that core inflation will breach the upper end of the target in the short term." Food prices — which rose 0.9% from September — are still expected to rise even though drought effects were dissipating. Viljoen said the Food and Agricultural Organisation had recently warned that a rise in food prices would add more people to the 14.3-million South Africans regarded as vulnerable to food insecurity. Inflation also reflected the 43c-per-litre hike in the petrol price in October. The 45c-per-litre rise will be reflected in the November statistics.