Paris — Belgium beat Estonia 8-1 to go clear in Group H, as Cristiano Ronaldo scored twice for Portugal to survive a scare before downing Latvia 4-1 in World Cup qualifying on Sunday. There were braces from Romelu Lukaku and Dries Mertens as Belgium ran rampant with further goals from Thomas Meunier, Eden Hazard, Yannick Carrasco and an own goal to make it four wins from four. In the same group Greece scored a 95th-minute equaliser through Giorgos Tzavellas after a free-kick had given Bosnia the lead. Greece have 10 points from four games in Group H, two behind the Belgians. Gibraltar made a piece of history and were level for a while in Cyprus before going down 3-1. But they had cause to celebrate a significant consolation with Lee Casciaro’s 51st-minute equaliser — their first World Cup qualifier away goal. Ronaldo scored twice but missed a spot kick as the European champions Portugal recovered from a second-half wobble in Lisbon to remain three points adrift of Group B leaders Switzerland. Ronaldo converted a first-half spot kick to open the scores but then missed a second one. Within a minute Latvia were level as substitute Arturs Zjuzins pounced on the loose ball after a goalmouth scramble. But headers from Willian and Bruno Alves and a spectacular scissor-kick from Ronaldo assured Portugal of the three points. Earlier in Group B, the Faroe Islands were similarly plucky in soggy Lucerne, where Switzerland scored seven minutes from the end through Stephan Lichtsteiner to grind out a 2-0 victory and maintain their 100% record. In the same group Hungary beat Andorra 4-0 at home. Out-of-favour Manchester United winger Memphis Depay came off the bench to score twice and save the Netherlands blushes in Luxembourg. Depay gave United manager Jose Mourinho a reminder of his worth just as the Dutch were sliding to an embarrassing draw. The 3-1 victory over Luxembourg keeps the misfiring Dutch in the hunt for a place at Russia 2018, but they will need to play better if they are to trump the twin threats of table-toppers France and Sweden in Group A. Arjen Robben had a chance after a quarter of an hour for the Dutch, but should have done better than firing at Ralph Schon in the Luxembourg goal, as the Dutch tightened the screw. The home stopper Ralph Schon was beaten on 36 minutes when Arjen Robben slot home for a deserved Dutch lead. But a minute before the break the minnows grabbed a leveller after Joshua Brenet felled Daniel da Mota in the box and Maxime Chanot punished the visitors from the penalty spot. Robben, whose brilliant career has been blighted by injury, failed to make it out for the second half. Wesley Sneijder was also hooked at the break. It was Depay, one of the replacements, who struck soon afterwards to break home hearts. The 22-year-old, who is strongly linked with a move away from Old Trafford to Everton, sealed the match with his second goal in the final minutes. Also in Group A, Bulgaria edged Belarus 1-0 in Sofia. AFP