MPs from across the political parties were shocked Wednesday that the Social Security Agency of SA (Sassa) could not present a concrete plan to pay social grants to 17-million beneficiaries from April 1 next year when it takes over the distribution of grants from existing service provider Cash Paymaster Services (CPS). Both African National Congress and Democratic Alliance MPs said that Sassa's presentation to Parliament's social development committee indicated that it would not be ready to takeover. It had failed to meet five of the deliverables laid down by the Constitutional Court. Their views contrasted with the assurance given by Sassa’s newly appointed CEO, Thokozani Magwaza that Sassa would ready to distribute grants on April 1. Magwaza acknowledged the concern over the state of readiness of the agency to take over the distribution but insisted during a long-awaited presentation that Sassa would be in a position to fulfil its constitutional obligations.  Sassa pays out R141bn in social grants annually to support children, the elderly and the disabled. However, a presentation by Sassa project leader Zodwa Mfulani on progress did little to reassure Parliament's social development committee that the agency would in fact be ready to take over the distribution of social grants. DA social development spokesman Bridget Masango said she did not believe Sassa would be ready by end-March while DA MP Lindy Wilson said Mfulani's report was "bad news" Mfulani cited the example that biometric verification of social grant beneficiaries would only be ready by October 2017, one year later than the October 2016 deadline laid down by the Constitutional Court. She also noted that a request for information on payment infrastructure and cash distribution and security systems will only be issued in the next month. Sassa is also still engaging with the Reserve Bank and participants in the National Payments System to determine whether the agency can issue cards if it is supported by banks. Department of Social Development director general Zane Dangor told MPs that Sassa would have to go back to the Constitutional Court to report that the deadlines had not been met and to discuss possible options on the table for the distribution grants. The progress or otherwise of the preparations for the takeover as from April 1 next year has been a source of great concern to the DA. The party’s repeated questions to the Department of Social Development and Sassa about progress had been blocked, Masango said in an interview on Wednesday.  There is a perception of a lack of political will and a suspicion on the part of the DA that the department and Sassa are stalling in order to create a situation in which the contract of existing service provider Net1 subsidiary CPS is extended for a further 12 months. The Constitutional Court ruled in 2014 that the contract between Sassa and CPS was irregular but Sassa decided not to award it to another provider because of so-called deficiencies in the bids made and decided it would take over the payment of social grants as from April 1 when the CPS contract expires. The court laid down certain deliverables and timeframes for Sassa in preparation for the takeover. These related to integration of systems, biometric verification and authentication, payment processing, payment infrastructure, payment reconciliation, cash distribution and security and card issuance and special accounts. Sassa has not met most of the deadlines set. Mfulani said a procurement roadmap had been drawn up for the payment model that Sassa would adopt. One of the two models under consideration would involve the creation of a special Sassa social grant dispensation account which would not be a bank account  which offered credit options and allowed deductions or loans. Under this option, all participants in the national payments system would be able to offer specialised but limited Sassa accounts as long as they complied with the agency's requirements. This would mean that there would be multiple service providers offering Sassa accounts. Social grant beneficiaries with existing bank accounts would be allowed to choose their own choice of a bank.