Statistician-General Pali Lehohla has reminded the country that its stubborn and rising structural unemployment demonstrates economic growth remains elusive and its growth strategies are not delivering the intended outcomes. He also observes that the level of foreign and domestic investment is too low to create new businesses and jobs. The challenge with foreign direct investment is that for many years it has been around 20% of GDP and it has not exceeded capital depreciation significantly enough to be able to catalyse growth and create new businesses and jobs. For the economy to create the level of jobs anticipated in the National Development Plan would require that foreign direct investment exceed 30%. This is the area of the political mandate that demands leadership with strategic foresight. The country needs to create an investment climate that is attractive because it is the private sector that creates jobs by investing in new businesses and expanding existing businesses. At the heart of the rising unemployment problem is that the majority of the unemployed are unskilled, and yet the country is progressively moving towards a hi-tech and high-skills economy. Mining has historically provided the employment opportunities for this labour segment and contraction in that sector over the years has presented special challenges. That strategically the way to go is low-wage mass employment opportunities in manufacturing has to be accepted, but it puts SA in direct competition with low-cost competitors in the Far East and it will always meet with resistance from the labour component in the governing alliance, which insists on "decent" wages and "decent" work. SA may then have to look at strategically targeted wage subsidies for a solution. The question is how to fund such subsidies. The only possible source is progressively higher taxes on the rich. SA has to create jobs for the kind of unemployment it has and not that it wishes it had. The National Development Plan identified the need for average annual growth of more than 5% a year from 2012 to 2030 to meet its targets of eliminating poverty and reducing inequality, primarily by creating 11-million new jobs. But annual growth has since barely ever touched 3%, and has been slowing over the past few years to 1% or less. The result is that the economy is considerably smaller now than the plan would have hoped, and the average growth rate needed to achieve the plan’s target for the size of the economy by 2030 is now more than 6% a year. The failure of the economy to grow means that many social policies championed in the plan and by the government appear increasingly unaffordable. Given the scale and complexity of SA’s unemployment problem, and especially of youth unemployment, no single or easy policy solution exists. Stimulating faster growth in general, and employment creation in particular, requires the determined adoption of a broad package of long-term measures to address and resolve supply-side and demand-side constraints. These must include not only rectification of the deficiencies of the education and skills-development systems, but also the adoption of more business-friendly economic policies to restructure the economy, reform the general investment climate and increase the incentives for private enterprises, which ultimately constitute the primary source of new jobs. It is encouraging that the energised engagement between the government and business is finally searching for mutually agreed interventions. In a situation in which the economy and investment are growing, and sustainable job opportunities are being created, the hopes and dreams of people are positively influenced. In such a situation, tax revenues for the state increase and the state is able to increase the services it can provide, especially to meet the needs of the poor. Unfortunately, we have experienced pedestrian growth in the economy for many years. As a result the ability of the economy to absorb the ever-increasing workforce has been limited. The economic growth rate in the past few years has barely exceeded the rate at which the population increases on an annual basis. With growth projections at no more than 2% up to 2019, it means SA is progressively getting poorer and it will increasingly become difficult to reduce inequality and poverty significantly. It is broadly agreed that the key factor that links poverty and inequality is unemployment, which affects not only the unemployed (nearly 8-million people) but the broader society as well. This is due to the wages of the working poor and grants providing support to the unemployed in poor households. Research has demonstrated that one of the persistent constraints that confront the poor is the cost of seeking out employment. SA’s spatial and housing policies have extended, very faithfully, the legacy of the apartheid design. It has continued to provide poorly constructed social housing in areas far removed from commercial centres instead of opting for high-density housing in the cities and near commercial centres. The rationale for this policy is astounding except for the simple reason that it was used as a political ticket. The refrain has always been that "we are committed to providing Reconstruction and Development Programme housing for our poor people". The arrogance reflected in this statement, used by the tripartite alliance, is that the poor have even been commoditised and policies intended to serve them have instead reinforced the poverty in which they exist. Economic policy remains a bitterly contested terrain because of the fundamentally different ideological perspectives of the alliance partners. The conflict around the National Development Plan is a classic example of this disagreement and yet the government frequently uses it as a flagship of its economic policy over the next five years. However, as long as this gridlock persists, creating an attractive investment climate will continue to be elusive. What is clearly necessary and urgent is the need for a comprehensive dialogue by all stakeholders for an appropriate and highly focused and shared growth path and strategy for SA. Such a growth strategy must focus on, and include, quality education for all, especially the poor; anti-monopoly policies and strategies that are aggressively implemented; steeply progressive taxation that may include a development tax on the rich; labour-market reforms to promote employment of low-skilled people and a strong social safety net; and providing incentives for the creation of mass employment opportunities in the manufacturing sector. These issues will require visionary leadership. They have been avoided for too long. • Motsohi is organisation strategist at Lenomo Strategy Advisory Services