Who would ever have thought that Donald Trump would be elected president when he announced his campaign back in March 2015? Well, on November 9, hell officially froze over.But, every so often, things need to be turned upside down to put them right-side up. So the voters did the political equivalent of using an ideological 2-by-4 to get the country&rsquo;s attention.Make no mistake, Trump&rsquo;s victory was a sharp, populist kick to the groin of the liberal establishment that has dominated the American mindshare, media and politics for most of the past decade.For the purposes of full disclosure, I voted for Hillary Clinton &mdash; albeit reluctantly. I think she would have made a decent president but would probably have been under political artillery fire around the clock from the Republicans, which would have compromised her effectiveness in office as it did President Barack Obama&rsquo;s.But, in hindsight, it doesn&rsquo;t surprise me that Trump won the election. Over the months of the campaign, it seemed to me that the media was starting to get a little too nervous about him. Could he actually win?Trump was rogue and unpredictable. He was in your face. He was a New Yorker. And he had 15-million Twitter followers. All the while, Clinton was slipping, then recovering and then slipping again in the polls.So to help her seal the deal, the media stopped reporting on Clinton and started selling her. But there&rsquo;s an old adage in sales that goes something like this: "people buy from people they like".Although Trump, like Clinton, had extremely low favourability ratings, the voters saw her moral deficit as just too large to overcome. And as the campaign dragged on, the never-ending e-mail scandals plaguing her made it very clear that something wasn&rsquo;t quite right on the left. No pun intended.In the end, thanks to Julian Assange, Clinton was Wiki-Leaked into political extinction.But try the media did. "Just look at the numbers. Trump can&rsquo;t possibly win," one pundit said a few days before election day. "His path to victory is improbable, if not impossible."Many prominent voices in the media kept implying that the election basically belonged to Clinton. "It&rsquo;s her turn," I heard every day.Well, it wasn&rsquo;t. And when the voting was over, the silent majority had spoken. Actually, the silent majority had screamed. It was Trump&rsquo;s turn.So now, a rainbow coalition of young millennials &mdash; still lost in an ideological fog &mdash; are angrily protesting against the election results across the country, in the streets and all over social media. And while many of the cellphone videos being released make it seem like there is a never-ending flow of enraged demonstrators, it is probably less than one-20th of 1% of the population &ndash; at most.The real irony here is they are demonstrating because the democratic system worked, not because it failed. They just didn&rsquo;t like the outcome.Others are now calling for the complete gutting of the electoral college, which was established as part of America&rsquo;s constitution in 1787.Yes, Clinton won the popular vote but she lost the electoral college. That&rsquo;s how it works. Those are the rules. It&rsquo;s like saying that one team beat the other in football because they ran up and down the field more often even though the other team scored more goals.Of course, had Clinton won the election, the left would be extolling the virtues of the system and marvelling at how well it performed.So now it&rsquo;s time for the US to start to heal itself. I&rsquo;m hopeful we can but, frankly, I&rsquo;m not convinced we have the national will. We are so divided it&rsquo;s almost as if we are two countries right now. There&rsquo;s anger everywhere.I walk all over New York every day and the vibe on the streets reminds me of an angry US in the late 1960s.The main difference is that Trump is now the new Richard Nixon.So Trump needs to lead the country and act decisively to reunite. He needs to assure the voters that he is the president of all the people irrespective of gender, religion, race or ideological leaning.But as the recent protests and unrestrained fury on Facebook and Twitter demonstrate, the liberal establishment does not react well to losing. They don&rsquo;t play well with the other kids in the sandbox, especially if they disagree with them.So here s the bottom line: the results are final and the people have spoken. Obama said exactly this in his post-election press conference. We now need to give Trump a chance to govern. But watch what he does, not what he says. Campaigns are about words. Presidencies are about action.Yes, he will attempt to reverse many of Obama s policies as well as most of his executive orders. Let s face it, much of it has not worked. That s why the voters chose another path and put Trump in office. And if he fails, he ll be out too. That s the beauty of democracy. If the president doesn t do a good job, you can fire him.Trump s mandate from the people is to fix what ails us. I hope he focuses on creating jobs first. Putting people back to work always acts as a salve on the wound and will spark the economy.He is claiming he will spend $1-trillion on infrastructure projects across the country although it will probably take a few years for that to have an impact.He will push to reduce taxes, which is long overdue. And with Republicans in control of Congress, he could get this done early in his presidency. He will look to rebuild the military to its former levels just like Ronald Reagan did back in the 1980s. What he does with it, however, is anybody s guess.My sense is he will start to move away from the incendiary rhetoric against Muslims and Mexicans and he should. He has to. I don t think he is anti-Muslim. He is antiterrorism. And he is not anti-Mexican. He is anti-illegal immigration. There s a big difference.He is already softening his position on the mass deportation of illegal immigrants, saying now that only those with criminal records will be deported. But he will also secure the borders and make it very tough to get into the US illegally wherever you re from.Perhaps the best illustration of how he might approach the presidency is this: back in 1986, as a real estate developer Trump watched New York City try and repeatedly fail to build a public skating rink in Central Park.It had already been under construction for 12 years at that point. Legendary New York City mayor Ed Koch told Trump he would give him the project but he needed it finished in 18 months. Trump said he could do it in four. And finished in three. I think this is the kind of president we could very well get.Trump and I are both New Yorkers actually, we both grew up in Queens, which is one of the city s five boroughs. So here s one thing I know for sure: he ll work harder than anyone on the planet. That s a trait you want in your president.I ll leave you with this: stop whining. It benefits all of us to give Trump the opportunity to do his job and allow for the peaceful transition of power to a new administration with different ideas. This is our history and how we have always done it.We gave Obama the chance to govern. We gave George W Bush the chance to govern. And every president before them too. If Clinton had won, I d have got behind her and cheered her on as well.But now it s Trump s turn. If we render his efforts ineffective through endless protests and violence, blatantly biased media coverage, social media smear campaigns and partisan political obstruction, I am not sure we will ever find our way back to being the United States of America. Rather, we will remain as we are today: the Divided States of America. Give him a chance. Levin is managing partner at Nexus Capital Markets in New York.