The Food and Allied Workers Union (Fawu) on Monday rejected the proposed national minimum wage of R3,500 "as inappropriate and far from addressing the treble challenges of unemployment‚ inequality and poverty". Instead‚ the union said‚ it wants a minimum wage of R5,700 a month. Fawu general secretary Katishi Masemola said the union "will not only make submissions but wage campaigns because this country cannot afford to be the case study of treble challenges and social ills". Fawu’s campaign will call for: • The introduction of new taxes‚ especially wealth and reparation taxes; • an increased rate of both PAYE and corporate taxes to apartheid-days levels; and • a 10% tax on the cash reserves of all organisations, whether listed companies‚ privately owned companies, or nongovernmental organisations, trade unions and other civil society organisations. Masemola also said Fawu did "not understand the rationale for a possible exclusion‚ couched as special consideration" for both the domestic sector, which employs close to 1.2-million workers, and the agricultural sector, which employs about 800,000 people, in the newly announced national minimum wage proposal. ‘Intricate balance’ Farmers’ group Agri SA, however, welcomed the proposed exemption for the sector. Agri SA called for “for in-depth research and consultation with all agricultural role-players‚ especially farmers in drought-stricken areas”. It chairman, Neil Hamman‚ said on Monday that “whilst labour cost is a major cost driver‚ a contented labour force is equally essential for optimum production”. “Compromising the intricate balance between wages and the sustainability of farming enterprises will, however, result in unintended consequences such as job losses and mechanisation‚” he said. Hamman said: “Agri SA welcomes the fact that struggling farmers still will have access to section 50 of the Basic Conditions of Employment Act that makes provision for exemptions from ministerial determinations. “We also welcome the fact that the expert advisory committee recommended that a lower mean apply to domestic and farm workers‚ depending on the circumstances.” The EFF has also objected to the proposed exceptions. TMG Digital