Unemployment in SA is rising faster than the rate at which the economy is creating jobs, suggesting a serious lack of economic growth and fixed investment spending by the government and the private sector. The jobless rate rose to 27.1% — the highest since 2003 — during the third quarter of 2016, despite employment gains in several sectors. The sectors were mainly the construction sector, which added 104,000 jobs in the second and third quarters, and trade and agriculture. During the third quarter 455,000 jobs were lost on a year-on-year comparison (239,000 quarter on quarter). There were 5.8-million people reported as unemployed during the third quarter of 2016. The number of employed people grew by only 5,000 year-on-year to 15.8-million people during the third quarter, according to the Quarterly Labour Force Survey, which was published on Tuesday. The expanded unemployment rate, which includes those who wanted work but did not look for work, dropped 0.1 percentage point quarter-on-quarter to 36.3%. "This reflects the lack of economic growth, especially the lack of fixed investment spending by both government and the private sector, as well as the sustained low business confidence," Kevin Lings, Stanlib chief economist, said. On a quarterly basis employment rose in the formal and informal sectors including agriculture, which created 56,000 jobs during the third quarter, increasing employment in the sector to 881,000. But Wandile Sihlobo, head of economic and agribusiness intelligence at the Agricultural Business Chamber, said the outlook for jobs in the sector remained lacklustre. "Farmers’ cash flows have been negatively affected by the 2015/16 drought." In the Stats SA survey the sector showing the greatest decline in jobs was manufacturing, which laid off 28,000 workers during the quarter. Stats SA said 9,000 mining positions were also lost. FNB economist Mamello Matikinca said it showed these sectors remained under "a considerable amount of strain" due to lower commodity prices and global demand. Mining has been a bedrock for the economy, contributing 8.2% to GDP. Statistician-general Pali Lehohla, who presented the figures, said the decline in the sector did not indicate a shift away from a mining-led economy, but was a response to China’s reduced demand for primary goods and services. "It’s early days to suggest or decide that mining might not be the mainstay of the economy." Lehohla said activity in the platinum belt in Limpopo and talk of beneficiation would renew the lease on life for mining and manufacturing. Economists are, however, more concerned about the outlook for employment that is not expected to improve soon. Government sector employment has fallen for the past two consecutive quarters. With tighter controls on public sector spending announced by the Treasury, "on a trend basis, public sector employment is expected to decline", Kamilla Kaplan, an economist at Investec, said. Public service remuneration accounts for 36% of government expenditure and has been a key risk to the fiscal outlook. "Lower employment levels in industry and the consumptive sectors are reflective of the subdued economic growth climate, with GDP growth forecast at 0.3% year on year in 2016," Kaplan said. "Labour market conditions are likely to remain poor in the period ahead, with GDP growth projected to rise only to 2.2% year on year by 2020." The Treasury revised its growth outlook for 2016 to 0.5% from 0.6% in February.