The board of Eskom, appointed by Public Enterprises Minister Lynne Brown, consisted predominantly of people with ties to President Jacob Zuma’s son Duduzane, the Gupta family and its associates, and went to extreme lengths to assist the family to buy the Optimum coal mine, according to the former public protector’s report into state capture. It also illustrates the "cosy relationship" between Eskom CE Brian Molefe and the Guptas through Molefe’s phone records, which show that he called Ajay Gupta 44 times over a six-month period and was in the vicinity of their Saxonwold compound 19 times between August and November 2015. Brown failed to apply basic principles of corporate governance in her appointments — described as "improper" — and failed to take action once this became apparent. The report shows a web of interrelated conflicts of interest and overlapping business relationships between Eskom directors and the Gupta family, including well-known associate Salim Essa. At the centre of Eskom’s suspicious relationship with the Guptas are the Optimum coal mine — which was bought by Gupta-controlled Tegeta Resources in April after being forced into business rescue — and the subsequent coal contracts awarded to the company. Among the key observations regarding Tegeta and Optimum, the report suggests that Eskom intentionally pushed the Optimum coal mine, then owned by Glencore, into business rescue by refusing to renew its coal supply contract for the Hendrina mine. It appears this severely prejudiced Glencore, and Eskom’s conduct "was solely for purposes of forcing the mine into business rescue and financial distress", says the report. Eskom also directly assisted Tegeta to buy the Optimum mine through awarding to the mine additional contracts to supply a power station at Arnot. While the supply price for the Hendrina power station was loss-making, the price to supply Arnot was among the highest paid by Eskom. The sole reason for giving Tegeta the Arnot contract was to assist it in purchasing all the shares in Optimum. Tegeta also received extremely favourable payment terms of seven days, even though a 30-day payment term was in force. The Eskom board further assisted Tegeta’s purchase of Optimum by prepaying R659m for the Arnot coal contract. This payment was made on the same day Tegeta informed the mine’s business rescue practitioners that it was short of R650m for the Optimum shares. That night – April 11 – Eskom held an urgent board tender committee meeting at 9pm to approve the prepayment. Tegeta’s conduct and misrepresentations made to the public about the prepayment could amount to fraud, says the report. As the shareholders of Tegeta, which include the Guptas and Duduzane Zuma, pledged their shares to Eskom for the prepayment, it is clear that they were aware of the nature of the transaction. In several instances, Eskom’s board contravened the Public Finance Management Act and did not exercise a duty of care. Mineral Resources Minister Mosebenzi Zwane played a part in facilitating the Tegeta-Optimum transaction and travelled with a delegation from Tegeta to Glencore in Switzerland in December 2015 to negotiate the purchase. Zwane was not interviewed for the report. He confirmed in January that he had travelled with the delegation but denied any personal benefit. The report, which confirmed travel records, eyewitness accounts of the trip and Zwane’s meeting with Glencore CE Ivan Glasenberg, Rajesh Gupta and Essa, notes that if Zwane did travel officially to meet Glencore executives "his reason for travel would have been authorised by the president". "If Minister Zwane travelled in his official capacity to support Tegeta’s bid to buy the mine, his conduct would give Tegeta an unfair advantage over other interested buyers. Further, it is potentially unlawful for the minister to use his official position of authority to unfairly and unduly influence a contract for a friend or, in this instance, his boss’s son at the expense of the state," the report reads. The report says a case exists to explore a range of suspicious contracts and events at other state-owned companies, in particular Transnet, South African Airways, Denel and the SABC, many of which involve the Guptas. But it will be up to the commission of inquiry, which she has ordered as a remedial measure, to investigate these. With Karl Gernetzky