Eskom CEO Brian Molefe&rsquo;s decision to step down from the utility following the public protector&rsquo;s State of Capture report has been greeted with regret and praise.The regret is because he clearly was a competent CEO who has done much to turn around Eskom&rsquo;s operational and financial performance in the 19 months since he took over; the praise because he has "done the right thing" by stepping down, to protect Eskom&rsquo;s reputation, according to Molefe, even though he made it clear his resignation was no admission of guilt on his part.Certainly, he deserves to be commended for having the decency to step down. He has taken accountability for the questionable dealings with the Guptas and Gupta-linked Tegeta, which are detailed in the public protector&rsquo;s report. He had resigned, he said, to protect Eskom. There isn&rsquo;t nearly enough of this kind of decency and accountability in SA public life &mdash; in fact, we hardly ever see public officials so readily agree to carry the can, even when they are charged and found guilty. Molefe&rsquo;s resignation seems therefore to set an example that others in public life who are caught doing wrong should look to &mdash; and their boards or bosses should encourage.Yet we cannot help wondering what really prompted Molefe&rsquo;s resignation.First, the State of Capture report did not find Molefe or his colleagues, or Eskom and its board of directors, guilty of anything. All it did was indicate there was enough evidence to justify the appointment of a judicial commission of inquiry to conduct a probe into the allegations and recommended that the president himself should not appoint the judge.The report shows extensive evidence of a series of meetings with the Guptas and a series of coal transactions involving Gupta-linked Tegeta.Eskom is insistent that it has a valid explanation for the transactions. Why Molefe felt it necessary to resign even though the commission has not yet been appointed and no charges have been laid is not clear.Second, it is not clear why Molefe has made himself the story. The State of Capture report implicates the entire Eskom board and Public Enterprises Minister Lynne Browne. We would hope that Molefe s decision to resign does not serve to divert attention from the evidence against them and the very real possibility that all of them were as embroiled in capture and corruption as he was, or even a great deal more so.The important question, for Eskom and for SA, is what happens now. Eskom has long suffered from political meddling; pressure for corrupt deals (not just with the Guptas) has frequently crippled the efforts of good executives to do what they needed to do to keep SA s lights on. SA endured a disastrous couple of years of load-shedding under acting CEO Collin Matjila and Tshediso Matona before Molefe came to the rescue. Although lower demand and a long stretch of higher maintenance has contributed to Eskom s success in keeping the lights on for the past 15 months, strong leadership and astute management is crucial, and Molefe clearly has provided that, whatever else he may or may not have done.It is regrettable that he has resigned. And it will be even more regrettable if the government opts, again, to choose a political appointee to lead Eskom rather than an experienced professional not to mention honest CEO with the competence and wisdom to manage a highly complex organisation that is not yet out of the woods, operationally or financially.The government must urgently find and appoint such a person. It must also urgently appoint the commission of inquiry recommended by the public prosecutor, so that the state capture issue can be thoroughly probed and those responsible held to account.