Outside Japan, where stocks rallied on the yen weakening to more than ¥107/$, markets trading ahead of the JSE on Monday morning were generally weaker. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng index lost 1.2% and Sydney’s S&P/ASX 200 was down 0.8%. Surprisingly, New Zealand’s S&P/NZX 50 index rallied 0.6% despite a series of earthquakes that led to a decline in the share prices of insurance companies. Platinum miner Lonmin is scheduled to release its final results for the year to end-September on Monday. Lonmin’s share price plunged 11.78% to R34.14 on Friday after it announced it was raising its stake in Pandora to 92.5% by acquiring Anglo American Platinum’s 42.5% stake in exchange for 20% of Pandora’s earnings for the next six years. The estimated value of the deal is more than R400m. The remaining 7.5% of Pandora is owned by Northam. Mr Price, which is scheduled to release its interim results on Monday, tumbled 7.15% to R133.70 on Friday after competitor Woolworths said in a trading statement: "The start to the financial year in both SA and Australia was impacted by an extremely warm winter and consequent very high levels of promotion, as all retailers sought to clear stock." Mr Price warned in August in a trading update for the first 18 weeks of its financial year it was "unlikely that earnings for the half-year to September will exceed the previous year". The clothing retailer has not issued a trading statement ahead of its interim results, indicating its earnings will not differ by more than 20% from the first 26 weeks of its previous financial year. Vodacom is scheduled to release its interim results for the six months to end-September on Monday. It has also not released a trading statement. Sugar producer Tongaat Hulett said in a trading statement on November 4 that it expected to report on Monday that headline earnings for the six months to end-September had grown 6% from the matching period. Tongaat has been converting its historical KwaZulu-Natal cane fields into residential property over the past few years, and this contributed R306m out of its total operating profit of R825m for the reporting period, the trading statement said. Sugar production suffered from the drought, but Tongaat did benefit from better prices. Trematon Capital Investments warned shareholders in a trading statement on November 3 that it expected to report on Monday that headline earnings per share (HEPS) for the year to end-August fell by up to 87%.