Kyle Abbott bowled SA to a stirring victory over Australia in the second Test at Bellerive Oval in Hobart on Tuesday‚ then struggled to believe what he had just done. "We never thought we would get close to bowling them out in a session‚" said Abbott‚ who took 6/77 in Australia’s second innings to complete a match haul of 9/118. Abbott’s accurate‚ penetrative bowling was the major reason SA were able to be done and dusted‚ winning by an innings and 80 runs‚ half an hour before lunch on the fourth day of a match in which the entire second day was lost to rain. Tuesday’s triumph followed SA’s 177-run win in the first Test at the WACA‚ to clinch the series 2-0. "From the start of the Test we speak about winning in the last session‚ taking it deep and being patient‚" Abbott said. "So when things speed up like that it is rewarding. "But we bowled really well (on Monday) evening and that was our investment session for (Tuesday) morning. "We knew we were one or two balls away from cracking open that middle order and it was proved (on Tuesday) morning. "(Tuesday) was just reward for (Monday) afternoon." Abbott‚ Vernon Philander and Kagiso Rabada beat the bat frequently on Monday but‚ unlike in Australia’s first innings of 85‚ they did not find the edge. The home side resumed on 121/2 and were firmly in survival mode. But this time the edge was found — six of the last eight wickets fell to catches in the arc behind the wicket. With Abbott firing mercilessly from one end and Kagiso Rabada‚ who took 4/34‚ from the other there was nowhere for the Australians to hide. "Cricket is a ruthless environment‚" Abbott said. "That’s what we’ve wanted to improve on in this series‚ really fighting as hard as we can and being ruthless with the small stuff‚ from small stops in the field to crucial partnerships and creating pressure from both ends. "That’s what Test cricket is about — who can stand the pressure the longest and being ruthless and never being happy with what you’ve done and wanting more." SA‚ who beat Australia 5-0 in a one-day series last month‚ can get still more when the third Test starts in Adelaide next Thursday. TMG Sport