Joburg residents are used to traffic jams, but we could get a horse jam in Midrand this week with 235 two-year-olds in town for the last big sale of the year — the Emperors Palace Ready-To-Run, scheduled for Thursday and Friday evenings. The Randjesfontein training centre — the base for many trainers including Sean Tarry, Mike de Kock and Geoff Woodruff — will host the sale for the first time. The starting time on each day is 6pm. The carrot being dangled to buyers is entry into three rich CTS races — two each worth R2.5m to be run over 1,400m at Turffontein and Kenilworth in 2017 as well as the R1m Kuda Sprint on Sun Met day 2018. As usual, Mick Goss’s Summerhill Stud has the largest draft with their stallion Visionaire having the largest representation followed by Await The Dawn and Brave Tin Soldier. The country’s top sires including champion Trippi, Dynasty, Captain Al and Silvano will have offspring there, so it is understandable that the Sporting Post describes the sale as a "no-brainer for the smart money". The two-year-olds were galloped at Randjesfontein on Monday and trainers will have pencilled in those youngsters they feel could follow in the footsteps of recent graduates Rabada (winner of the Daily News 2,000) and Heaps Of Fun (the Gauteng Fillies Guineas). American-bred sire Visionaire has 20 colts and nine fillies set to come under the hammer of auctioneers Graeme Hawkins and Andrew Miller and they include a half-brother to six-time winner Pej and a half-brother to Tarry’s talented filly Intergalactic. Goss can point to some outstanding graduates from his Mooi River stud, including Pierre Jourdan, Imbongi, Phunyuka and Cereus, who were all purchased pretty cheaply. The most expensive of this quartet was Imbongi, who cost R140,000. Await The Dawn, a son of Giants Causeway, won six races including the Hardwicke Stakes at Royal Ascot and he is represented by 13 colts and 10 fillies. The colts include a half-brother to six-time winner Distinguished and five-time winner Coby, and a half-brother Showmetheway. Brave Tin Soldier, the sire of grade1 winner Rabada, has six colts and 10 fillies. and the colts include a half-brother to three-time winner Flashing Star, who has the interesting name of Right In The Scrum. Not exactly a great topic right now given the Springboks recent defeats! In the fillies department, Brave Tin Soldier has the second foal of the speedy mare Mary Lou, who won six races. Balmoral have a strong draft with two-year-olds by many different stallions including Dynasty, Var, Irish Flame, What A Winter and Great Britain. As agents, they are selling a half-brother by Var to Bela-Bela and Rabiya. This colt has every chance of being the sales topper if he impresses at the pre-sale gallops. The Vaal hosts an eight-race programme on Tuesday and Tarry, who has two strong hopes in Liege and Samurai Blade in Saturday’s R2m Sansui Summer Cup, sends 12 runners to the Free State track. Recent winner Fieldmarshal Fenix is carded to run again in the fifth race. Interestingly, Summerhill are offering his half-sister (by Await The Dawn) in the first session of the sale on Thursday.