A number of insurers have declared a catastrophe as claims arising from Gauteng’s flash floods continue to pour in. "At midday today [Monday], Santam registered just over 900 claims stemming from the cloud burst, which caused severe flooding in the East Rand of Gauteng last week," said Fanus Coetzee, head of adjustment services at Santam. "In cases like this, Santam registers a catastrophe code under which all the claims related to this single weather event are registered." This follows an announcement from Aon SA, a risk adviser and insurance brokerage, stating that its client insurers had declared the area a national catastrophe zone following claims from the area. "To date we have received nearly 150 vehicle claims and more than 700 nonvehicle claims related to the flooding in the East Rand," Coetzee said. "At this stage it is quite difficult to say whether we expect many more claims in this respect as we are currently assessing the claims we have received." Hollard’s Warwick Bloom said the insurer had not yet declared a catastrophe as it was still recording new claims. "This may change in the future once we have a more comprehensive view of all losses suffered by our clients," Bloom said. "At this stage we have experienced a notable increase in weather-related claims. However, these are not all related to flooding." Mutual & Federal, with 150 claims flowing from the floods and rising, according to head of claims Michelle van Staden, has also not declared a catastrophe. Johannesburg’s emergency services are relying on volunteers to help tackle the floods, which have claimed a reported eight lives. The city, which previously had just 14 disaster management officers, has upped its permanent staff numbers. "The number has increased, almost double — we also have trained volunteers within these vulnerable communities to assist," said William Mazibuko, the city’s director of disaster management. He said it had overcome issues picked up in recent research conducted on behalf of the UN’s regional interagency standing committee for Southern Africa. This research found that, while SA had among the best disaster management plans of the region, there were still issues around how municipalities and other spheres of government responded to disasters, the roles each played and funding. "The city disaster management department has mastered the co-ordination and facilitation of stakeholders within governments and outside, namely business and NGOs as required by the Disaster Management Act and national disaster risk management policy," Mazibuko said. "Funding will always be an issue for government, as there are developmental issues which are primary in reducing the risk of disasters, meaning building houses [and] storm water drainage [for example]." The Johannesburg Roads Agency was criticised for its failure to maintain drainage infrastructure as the floods spread last week. "We cannot determine how much or how many resources you will need to address the impact of a disaster until it occurs," Mazibuko said. "We usually use previous costs to determine that."