THE ANC in the North West "fully supports" a judicial commission of inquiry into state capture, but says it is concerned at the public protector’s recommendation that the chief justice, and not the president, appoint the presiding judge. The party in the province also said on Monday that it still supported President Jacob Zuma. The North West ANC, among Zuma’s staunchest provincial structures, released its statement after a meeting of its provincial executive committee. The ANC’s national working committee was set on Monday to discuss former public protector Thuli Madonsela’s State of capture report released last week. Madonsela’s remedial action included a provision for Chief Justice Mogoeng Mogoeng to appoint a judge to oversee the commission of inquiry. Her state of capture reports deals with claims that the president violated the executive ethics code and the constitution and that he may be conflicted in the relationship between his son Duduzane and the Gupta family, who are engaged in business with the state. The North West committee said it had studied the report. It commended his withdrawal of his court application to stop publication of the report, saying "we believe that the president withdrew the application in the interests of justice". "The president’s decision to withdraw the court application also helped to unmask and dislodge the regime change brigade who think it’s OK to simply want to remove a democratically elected head of state." The committee supported a judicial commission of inquiry, but not Madonsela’s recommendation that Mogoeng should appoint the commission as it believes the president has the "sole powers" to appoint commissions of inquiry. "We are, however, comforted by the lessons learnt in the past that the public protector’s report can be taken for a judicial review." The committee also wants incumbent public protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane to widen the scope of her investigations into allegations of state capture and include the "economic atrocities and the looting of the state" before 1994. BDlive