Hobart — First came the crowd at the Waca, then Dean Jones, then Greg Ritchie, and now this: "Hashim Amla terrorist." Those were the words believed to have been daubed on a fence near the South African team’s dugout at Bellerive Oval in Hobart on Saturday, the first day of the second Test against Australia. This ugliness can be added to the list of instances of racism that Australians have inflicted on South Africans in recent years. Happily, swift action has been taken. The suspected culprit, a 24-year-old man from the farming town of Longford, almost 200km to the north of Hobart, has been banned from attending any official cricket match in Australia for three years. He has also been summonsed to appear in court. "Tasmania Police identified the person of interest through CCTV and witnesses in the area," a Cricket Australia (CA) spokesman told reporters. "CA takes a zero-tolerance approach to antisocial behaviour at any of our matches, which includes racial vilification," It said. "Our message to any fan attending a match is that if you display antisocial behaviour you will be removed and risk being banned from any cricket match across Australia, as well as police action being taken. "We have been informed that the man has been formally charged and has been handed a three-year ban from the stadium," Proteas team manager Mohammed Moosajee said. "From our point of view it is disappointing and disconcerting because this is not the first act of racial vilification we have received while touring Australia over the years. It is unacceptable. There is absolutely no place for racial stereotyping and such offensive acts in society, let alone in sport." Former South African fast bowler Makhaya Ntini will know just how Amla feels, having complained of racist abuse from the crowd at the Waca in Perth in December 2005. Amla himself is no stranger to this kind of boorish behaviour. In 2006, Jones, a former Australian batsman, called him a "terrorist" while he thought he was off-air when working as a television commentator during SA’s tour to Sri Lanka. Jones was fired. On SA’s last tour here in 2012-13, Ritchie, another former Australian batsman, told Islamophobic and racist jokes in a speech at the Gabba to members of the Brisbane Cricket Ground. Exposure of Ritchie’s racism in the media cost him his public speaking career. No play was possible on day two of the second Test on Sunday. Rain that began falling on Saturday night continued into Sunday‚ and the umpires abandoned play just less than an hour into what would have been the second session. SA were 171/5 at stumps on Saturday in reply to Australia’s total of 85‚ giving the visitors a lead of 86. Temba Bavuma was on 38 not out with Quinton de Kock on 28.