 Reporting to: News editor/editor Department: Editorial Location: Johannesburg Position overview Tiso Blackstar Group has a vacancy for an economics writer to write news, opinion and analysis for Business Day and the Financial Mail, as well as their online platforms. The successful candidate will have good contacts in the field of economics, as well as politics and the political economy and be able to report quickly and accurately on economic data and indicators, as well as the political economy, while providing value-added insight and analysis. They will be required to pitch story ideas, accept assignments from editors, and attend regular editorial meetings. Skills requirements The successful candidate must have an editorial background and proven skill in writing about economics in English. He or she will be able to work under pressure and on deadline. Knowledge of print and digital publishing systems is also required. Main responsibilities/outcomes Candidates should also have Personal skills/attributes Qualified applicants may submit their CV, cover letter and two references to Managing Editor Kevin O’Grady at ogradyk@businesslive.co.za Closing date:  31 August 2019 Tiso Blackstar Group is an Affirmative Action Employer and as such, preference will be given to candidates who will add to the diversity of our organisation.  Kindly take note that should we do not respond to you in the next 21 days, you may regard your application as unsuccessful.  Reporting to: News editor/editor Department: Editorial Location: Johannesburg Position overview Business Day and BusinessLIVE are looking for a markets writer. We’re seeking an applicant with a track record of writing news and analysis. Speed and accuracy are essential. The successful candidate must have an understanding of and the ability to write routine markets stories on currencies, bonds and stocks. They must also have an understanding of the principles of economics, knowledge of the stocks listed on the JSE, an understanding of the relationships between different financial instruments, and be able to interpret companies’ financial statements. They must be able to drive day-to-day coverage, company earnings, fast-moving breaking news and enterprise stories. The successful candidate will provide content for both print and online. Main responsibilities/outcomes Minimum qualifications and requirements Personal skills/attributes Qualified applicants may submit their CV, cover letter and two references to Managing Editor Kevin O’Grady at ogradyk@businesslive.co.za Closing date:  31 August 2019 Tiso Blackstar Group is an Affirmative Action Employer and as such, preference will be given to candidates who will add to the diversity of our organisation.  Kindly take note that should we do not respond to you in the next 21 days, you may regard your application as unsuccessful.        