Political analyst Ralph Mathekga discusses the release of the public protector’s State of Capture report and the implications for Jacob Zuma’s presidency. BUSINESS DAY TV: The public protector’s office has finally released Thuli Madonsela’s much-anticipated state capture report, in which she’s recommended that President Jacob Zuma appoint, within 30 days, a commission of inquiry headed by a judge solely selected by the chief justice. Joining us now to discuss some of the report’s findings is political analyst Ralph Mathekga. Ralph … maybe just on that point, the recommendation — do you think that was a master stroke by Thuli Madonsela? Because it means that this cannot be buried under the carpet. RALPH MATHEKGA: For me … that is the significance of this report, because going through the report, it comes out clearly that the [former] public protector acknowledges that she doesn’t have sufficient time to do a comprehensive investigation into state capture. Therefore she focuses on particular transactions and she acknowledges that there are certain discussions and meetings that need to be investigated further. She … doesn’t make any conclusive finding, but I think as you are correctly saying, she’s then saying that these issues require further investigation, hence this remedial action that there should be a commission of inquiry into this. I have thought indeed, it’s a good idea, because the whole idea of state capture is too broad. You need to have a much more comprehensive inquiry. That, I think, is very interesting, but don’t be surprised if President Jacob Zuma goes to court to challenge this report, actually with the aim to set aside maybe the recommendation. He still has that leeway to have it reviewed in court…. BDTV: Okay, so let’s shift focus to him now, because while that’s part of [what has been] encouraging today, let’s look at some of [what is] confounding. He made a last-minute U-turn withdrawing his interdict. Were you surprised by that move and why he ventured down that route in the first place? RM: I thought the whole idea of undertaking an interdict was gross miscalculation on the side of President Jacob Zuma, the reason being that for the court to be able to look into the reason why the report’s release should be interdicted, the court will have to get into some form of evaluation of the substance of the report. So … [why not] wait to challenge it in court? Let it be released, there is no point in you blocking the entire report altogether because for the court to evaluate your reason for demanding that it should be blocked, the court will have to go into the substantive issues of the report and in that way, the issues of the report will inadvertently find the … see the light of day. So for me, it was a miscalculated strategy from the beginning. BDTV: And of course, it made us all want to read the report, all 355 pages of it. We have it here, it’s our bedtime reading this evening. There are a lot of people saying that Jacob Zuma’s days are numbered. Do you think that is also a gross miscalculation of the facts as they stand? RM: Naturally, his time is coming to an end, the reality is that within the ANC, the ANC should have a new leader in 2017 and possibly … that would be the person who’s going to stand on the ticket of the party in the 2019 election. So are his days numbered? For me, that sounds like an obvious fact, that the man has survived from day one; I don’t think there is any significant point to say that maybe it’s getting tougher for him. Towards the end of anyone’s tenure, it is always difficult, you have realignment around you. The question here for me that is of great significance is whether [there will be] mutiny within the ANC or whether there is sufficient ground for mutiny within the ANC. What I see is the public dissatisfaction outside the ANC which involves also members of the ANC. I doubt if people are going to commit to this campaign to a point where it results in his removal. I hope they maintain the energy, but I’m not sure because we’ve had this movement coming in and fizzling out and so forth and him surviving. BDTV: We had Paul Mashatile at the People’s Assembly this morning, very vocal and very emphatic about the position the ANC is taking and the fact that the ANC won’t tolerate a state capture. What are the chances of — as Daniel Silke, another political analyst put it a little earlier — a broader coalition around national interests and a possible reboot, not only of ANC politics but of broader economic policy in SA. RM: That is a very good question you’re asking — that is this coalition outside the ANC sustainable? I think there are difficulties. First of all, we are hearing Mr Mashatile speaking and saying the ANC will not stand down on this. I will ask him, which ANC are you talking about? There are different versions of the ANC. Monday there is a version that speaks through Zizi Kodwa, Tuesday there is a version that speaks through Gwede Mantashe, on Friday there is another one that comes through the premier league, there is a great deal of incoherence. What is happening here is the desperate attempt by some members of the ANC, after failure to institute recourse against President Jacob Zuma inside, they are collaborating outside. The problem with this strategy for me is that they’re doing it for different reasons … it is like the Tower of Babel. People with all sorts on intentions that are so diverse that it is difficult for me to imagine them working together towards a single goal. BDTV: That’s a little bit disappointing because we hope a single goal is a reboot for SA. But we have to leave it there unfortunately, and no doubt we will be chatting to you in the next couple of months.