Joburg malls were besieged by bargain hunters on Friday, with shoppers staking out spots from the wee hours, and "nightmare" crowds reported. At the Mall of Africa, some shoppers queued from as early as 3am. "I came here at around 3am with my sister to buy a few groceries before it becomes too packed. I bought Kellogg’s‚ Weet-Bix and a few groceries. I saved about 50% on most of my purchases‚" Sally Ndlovu said. Another shopper said she did not have anything specific she wanted to buy‚ but just wanted to check out what was on special. "I am just going shop to shop‚ checking anything on sale so I can take advantage of Black Friday. I bought sneakers for R300 at Game‚ which go for R1,000 at the normal price‚ so I saved 70%‚" Litebogo Kgwedi said. A security officer at Checkers Hyper said he arrived at work to find an overwhelming number of shoppers camped outside. "There were so many people here at five in the morning‚ there were so many people here I think we are going to have a very long day‚" the guard‚ who asked not to be named‚ said. "Shoppers have not been giving us problems so far. There are just a lot of them‚ but they are peaceful and orderly — it’s not as crazy as I had anticipated yet." At Checkers Hyper at Eastgate, though, thousands of shoppers were pushing and shoving. Phumzile Langa arrived in the early hours, and it paid off. "I was in the first group that made it into the shop," Langa said. "But it is a nightmare. We are pushing each other for everything inside the shop. If you take your eyes away from your trolley‚ people take stuff from it. It is not properly organised and it is really chaos inside." Eastgate Checkers Hyper tried to limit the number of people entering the shop to avoid a stampede. Shoppers were being allowed to enter in batches‚ but only after similar-sized batches left the premises. The centre’s Game store was struggling with the same problem. Shops in the Mall of Africa were offering discounts of up to 70% on various items. Shoppers were warned to take extra caution to avoid being robbed. In Rosebank, Johannesburg, the Game store opened two hours early at 7am, and 15 minutes later the queue snaked from the tellers‚ past the fresh fruit and vegetable section‚ and into the electronics section. Customers’ trolleys were stacked with blenders‚ televisions‚ cooler boxes and other kitchenware. In the TV section customers lined up to get their hands on deals offering savings of as much as R1,600. Thandi Makubela had three televisions in her trolley‚ even though the policy is only one per customer. She had friends with her to help make the purchases. "It’s always better to buy appliances when they’re cheaper. This is the biggest sale of the year so it just makes sense to buy it today‚" she said while queuing to pick up her TV licence. "I looked at Makro‚ looked at Game‚ looked at HiFi Corp and Dion Wired. So I did shop around before making this purchase. "It’s a scam‚ this thing. I’m well aware of it. But it’s the time to get the cheapest deals." Mojalefa Mapena saved about R1,600 on a 40-inch Samsung smart television. "Already they are sold out. In 10 minutes they were gone. I think the store is smart. They only put out a limited amount of stock." Mapena hoped to do more shopping before heading to work. "Obviously some liquor. Festive season is coming so I’m going to save that up." He said he would not be putting himself into unnecessary debt‚ however. "My kids need to go to school." TMG Digital