When Kagiso Rabada bowled SA to victory in the first Test at the Waca, Faf du Plessis gave him a hug and a smile, and turned to a room crowded with reporters. "I’m sleeping with him tonight," Du Plessis said. On Tuesday, after Kyle Abbott took 6/77 to complete a match haul of 9/118 that had plenty to do with SA winning the second Test and the series in Hobart, he found himself the recipient of his captain’s bromantic embrace. "It’s his turn tonight," Du Plessis told the reporters. It was not Abbott’s turn on March 24 2015, when he was inexplicably left out of SA’s team for their World Cup semifinal against New Zealand in Auckland. SA lost to a team whose time had come — and with that a dream died. "It was a low point for everyone, not only the players but the whole country," Abbott said on Tuesday. "At the time, we didn’t quite know what to do. We drew a line in the sand. That was the culture of the past. It’s up to us to create a new culture. "I was lucky enough to be in that first team [to win a Test series in Australia, in 2008-09], led by Graeme [Smith]. That culture was great but time moves on and players move on. "We’ve come to understand as a team that our values are totally different to what they were 18 months ago. "We sat down [and discussed] our goals and what we stand for, and we walk it and we talk it every day. That’s pretty much how you turn things around," Abbott said. Turned things around SA have — and emphatically so. This time last year, they were getting their backsides kicked in India, where the pitches cheated them out of a fair shot at even contesting the Test series. Tainted though that result was, there was no doubting that England were the better team in the series that followed in SA. Swings and roundabouts results in various subsequent short-format series did not count for much, but faith flickered afresh when Australia were hammered 5-0 in a one-day rubber in SA in October. And now this. SA’s performance at the Waca was impressive enough, what with Dean Elgar and JP Duminy scoring centuries and Rabada taking a five-wicket haul. But beating Australia in less than seven sessions of actual play, which SA did in Hobart, took things to another level. "From the start of the Test, we speak about winning in the last session, taking it deep and being patient. So when things speed up like that, it is rewarding. But we bowled really well [on Monday] evening, and that was our investment session for [Tuesday] morning," Abbott said. "We knew we were one or two balls away from cracking open that middle order and it was proved on [Tuesday] morning." Indeed it was. It was also Abbott’s turn to shine, and he took it like a champion