As many as 1-million youths could benefit from a paid internship programme devised by the state, unions and business. SA has grappled with a high unemployment rate, with its youth the worst affected. Political observers have described the situation as untenable and a ticking time bomb. Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa said on Wednesday the new youth employment programme developed by the government, labour and business would be rolled out in two years — instead of three — during which 1-million young people would be placed in paid internships to gain experience. Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan has described SA’s high youth unemployment rate as a national emergency. "As part of efforts to address youth unemployment, the initiative of empowering young people is about developing a programme that aims to place 1-million young people in paid internships in the private sector over the next three years. "I still want … this to be 1-million people within two years. We are … still negotiating. We might be able to get there," Ramaphosa said during a question and answer session in the National Council of Provinces on Wednesday. By giving young people work experience, the programme will increase their ability to find permanent employment, he said. Statistics SA figures show that the country’s unemployment rate stands at 26.7% and the majority of the unemployed are youths. A lack of work experience and a poor education system have been identified as the main contributing factors. President Jacob Zuma said the cost of the internship programme would be absorbed by the private sector and supported by a negotiated package of government incentives. Toyota, Nestle, Goodyear and Cipla had put up their hands to be part of the initiative, Ramaphosa said. Despite a dismal throughput rate, the country’s technical and vocational education and training colleges played a critical role as placement forums for youth to obtain jobs, he said. More than 30 colleges had formed partnerships with companies including Standard Bank, General Electric, Continental Tyres and Sasol, he said. There was also a concerted effort to integrate the teaching of entrepreneurship at all stages of the education process. A South African small and medium enterprise fund would be established to make equity investments in small enterprises with growth potential, he said. "Government, business and labour are taking steps to increase investment, support small enterprise development, address youth unemployment and maintain SA’s investment status," he said. Ramaphosa defended the Cabinet’s controversial decision to withdraw SA from the International Criminal Court. "Withdrawal from the ICC [International Criminal Court] should be understood as a critique of the manner in which the institution has functioned, rather than a rejection of its underlying values," said Ramaphosa. "We must be certain that the prosecution of perpetrators must not be pursued at the expense of peace," he said. The DA has approached the courts to have the notice of withdrawal to the international court set aside. 