New York — Edvard Munch’s Girls on the Bridge fetched $54.5m at Sotheby’s on Monday, as the week of bellwether auctions in New York began. The 1902 canvas was expected to sell at more than $50m, the highest estimate of the week of auctions targeting more than $1bn at Sotheby’s, Christie’s and Phillips. It was the second-highest auction price paid for a work by the Norwegian painter, Sotheby’s said. Sotheby’s evening sale of Impressionist and modern art tallied $157.7m, within the estimated presale range but a 49% decline from the similar auction a year ago. "A solid sale in a somewhat subdued sale room," said Thomas C Danziger, a partner at law firm Danziger, Danziger & Muro, who attended the sale. "Given the excitement — and anxiety — of the past week, it was reassuring to see that the art market stayed afloat, even if the mood wasn’t very buoyant." Top lot The Munch was the top lot of the evening and one of three guaranteed pieces. Sotheby’s found third-party backers to place irrevocable bids, ensuring the works were bought. Each of these works sold to the backers and drew no other bids either from the room or on the phones. Sotheby’s pricing revealed that the buyer of the Munch received a $2m fee for providing the bid. The night’s surprise The evening’s sole auction record for an artist belonged to a 1920s geometric abstract composition by Laszlo Moholy-Nagy. His enamel on steel, EM 1 Telephonbild, fetched $6.1m, smashing the previous record of $1.6m. The buyer was Mathias Rastorfer, co-owner of Switzerland-based Galerie Gmurzynska, on behalf of a client. The work was recently exhibited at the artist retrospective at the Solomon R Guggenheim Museum in New York. "For a connoisseur, it was a very good buy," Rastorfer said. "It was incredibly radical at the time and it still looks very contemporary." Casualties Of the evening’s 42 offered lots, eight failed to sell. One casualty was Tamara de Lempicka’s 1925 portrait of a man in fur-collared coat, Portrait de Guido Sommi, estimated at $4m-$6m. A 1923 painting of a woman in a blue dress by Henri Matisse, estimated at $5m-$7m, also found no taker. Takeaway "It’s the first test after the US presidential election and the market passed it," said Hugo Nathan, an art adviser based in London. "It’s a solid start for the week." The spotlight at Sotheby’s returns now to a long-running series of Pablo Picasso paintings titled, Painter and his model. The 1963 painting from the series offered at the auction on Monday sold for $12.9m. It had been estimated between $12m-$18m. Among the other works to go on the auction block this week is Claude Monet’s Meul, part of a series of haystacks the French artist painted during the winter of 1890-91. Christie’s has estimated it will sell at $45m. Another notable Christie’s offer will be Willem de Kooning’s imposing Untitled XXV — 2m by 2.2m and featuring the Dutch-American’s typically vigorous, multicolored brush strokes. Christie’s estimates a sale at $40m. Bloomberg and AFP