Investors responded to concrete opportunities on the ground rather than political sentiment, Trade and Industry Minister Rob Davies said Thursday. He was responding a question on whether the action taken by the National Prosecuting Authority against Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan had affected foreign investment in SA. "Investors also seek policy certainty and a comfortable experience, which research has shown leads to a greater level of investment," the minister said in a written reply to a parliamentary question by DA deputy spokesman for trade and industry Dean Macpherson. "Investors take a long-term view on a business case and a country as a location for their investment," Davies said. "SA has sound economic fundamentals and minister Gordhan has confirmed this view during his recent investor road shows to the UK and US, where he and leaders of South African business had engagements with institutional investors and companies." SA had a potential investment pipeline of R38.3bn at the end of the second quarter and according to Davies new investments had been announced or launched every month such as those by BAIC, Ford, Toyota, J&J, 3M, AVK Valves, Nestle, Sumitomo Rubber Industries and Dormac, among others. "Multinationals have affirmed SA as a regional manufacturing hub and committed or expanded their investment in SA," he said. "During our recent visit to the US, we met executives from GE who informed us they are committed to the rail localising programme and expanding their manufacturing footprint. GE is also looking at investment in energy, healthcare and the water sector in SA. Davies added: "On the margins of the Brics Summit in Goa, India, we visited Cipla, who announced the first biologics plant for SA, making SA the second manufacturing location outside India." Replying to another question by Macpherson, Davies said his department was in continuous discussion with the UK’s government on the implications of the UK leaving the EU for SA’s trade relations with the country, and how this could be addressed. "SA has emphasised that any trade relationship with the UK should build on the economic partnership agreement (with the EU) in order to ensure certainty on both sides and to avoid a prolonged negotiation with the UK," the minister said. "SA’s market access under the Environmental Protection Agency is also secured into the UK until the negotiations for their exit from the EU has been finalised. The exit of the UK from the EU will not impact on SA’s market access to the rest of EU member states," he added.