Mercedes-Benz is going to make a bakkie. This will come as a big surprise to many; after all, bakkies are not normally associated with luxury German vehicles. But Merc has been doing its homework. Speaking at the reveal of the new X-Class in Sweden, Marion Friese, head of marketing for Mercedes-Benz Vans, advised that the mid-size pick-up segment is growing. She predicts that the segment will increase globally by a massive 39% over the next 10 years. Friese points out that the market is changing, with customers demanding more car-like qualities in their bakkies. The market has reacted, particularly in models such as the latest Ford Ranger, and the upcoming new Nissan Navara is set to follow suit. The Navara is also the platform for the new X-Class, which will arrive in SA early in 2018. It is not a new thing for Merc. The company has been at home with pick-ups in Argentina for more than 60 years since the 220D, affectionately known as "La Pick-Up". Since then it has created the mighty six-wheeled G-Class pick-up, although that is not a mass-production model. "I hate having a gap in our line-up," says Daimler boss Dieter Zetsche, telling the assembled media that the X-Class "will be a proud and worthy member of the Mercedes-Benz line-up." Anja Kratzenstein, head of marketing strategy at Mercedes-Benz Vans, says: "It targets those who want a premium pick-up that reflects their business status and company image." Merc could have done what Fiat, Mitsubishi and Renault are doing and just changed a few design items on the Navara and plonked on a three-pointed star, but it has gone way beyond that. "Our pick-up will be hotter than the others and cooler than the others," says Dominik Amman of the design team. He advises that the team changed every single body panel compared with the Navara. Granted, the vehicles shown are concepts, with the production version likely to be revealed in six months’ time, but many elements look set to remain, particularly up front. The rear of the mainstream concept with its large rectangular LED light will probably become a more simple tailgate and we explained to the designers that those narrow wing mirrors are unlikely to survive the African bush. Traversing Africa is important because this is not a bakkie aimed only at city slickers in Europe. The major markets are SA, South America and Australia, so the X-Class has to be a blend of rugged luxury. To that end it will be available with shiftable all-wheel drive, centre and rear differential locks and low range. It will sit on a ladder-type frame for strength and ability but it is a Merc, so expect comfort. Comfort will come in the form of a wide track for car-like handling and do not expect bouncy leaf springs at the rear. Instead, Merc will do the same as Renault will with its Alaska and offer a full multilink rear suspension set-up. Then there is the interior. The designers ripped out Nissan’s efforts and raided the C-Class and V-Class parts bin. As Zetsche points out: "The touch points will all be Mercedes." This means, well everything really, from the instrument cluster to the dashboard and the infotainment system. It all looks Merc because it is Merc. We are promised a decent payload of almost 1.2tonnes and a towing capacity of almost 3.5tonnes. There will be three driveline options, one being all Mercedes including its V6 petrol motor linked to a 7G-tronic gearbox and four-wheel drive. There will be four-cylinder petrol and diesel motors from Nissan mated to manual or automatic gearboxes and rear or all-wheel drive. Will there be an AMG version? Most of the execs say no, but Zetsche, who is always a little more straightforward, says: "We will wait and see how the project will develop." So no doubt the team at Affalterbach have their hands on one already and are shoehorning in a biturbo V8, but that would just be speculation on our part. Mercedes promises a range of accessories. It is so keen to make a success of its new bakkie that it has created a division just to design and make accessories. "We wanted to do this ourselves, so our designers created a range of options," says Friese. Those will include nudge bars, canopies and sliding cargo covers. There will be various line packages, but Friese advises that the company is also working with aftermarket suppliers. How far it will take the options is unknown, but the Adventurer concept gives a slightly more outlandish idea of how the designers are thinking. When the production version is eventually shown, we expect it to look a little more like the Explorer version, which has more of the characteristics of a stylish Mercedes. Now the company has six months to gauge reaction to the styling before producing that finished product. However it turns out, the bakkie market is set to gain a luxury player and a new star.