Tharisa paid a maiden dividend as its chrome and platinum mine near Brits reached steady state production and offset weak prices for both commodities and the company predicted free cash flow should "grow considerably" in the year ahead. Tharisa, a tightly held company run by the Pouroulis family and listed on the Johannesburg and London bourses, more than doubled profit for the year to end-September to $15.8m from $6m the year before. It declared its first dividend, paying shareholders $0.01c per share. While revenue declined to $219.7m from $246.8m last year, the cost of production fell as the mine reached steady state during the year. Total current assets for the year were $84.1m compared to current liabilities of $83.6m. Tharisa mined 15% more ore, generating 4.8-million tonnes of rock to fully feed its two processing plants, which handled 4.7-million tonnes. Output of chrome in concentrate was 11% higher at 1.24-million tonnes, while output of six platinum group metals rose 12.4% to 132,600oz. Tharisa stepped up production of its high-margin specialty grade chrome by nearly 140% to 269,400 tonnes. Tharisa sells its platinum concentrate to Impala Platinum. In dollar terms, the price for the basket of platinum group metals Tharisa produces has come down by almost 17% compared to the previous year, but a weaker rand offset this fall and in local currency terms the basket of metals was 2.7% higher than before. The price of metallurgical grade chrome concentrate delivered to Chinese harbours fell 24% to $120/tonne. "With the considerable recovery in chrome concentrate prices underpinned by demand the margins from our chrome business are robust," the company said, forecasting its free cash flow in the year ahead would "grow considerably". Tharisa will continue to tweak its platinum and chrome recoveries at its two plants, using its stay-in-business capital spend to achieve these improvements. "Reaching steady state on an annualised basis in the year under review has set the business up to benefit from incremental improvements in feed grade, recoveries and more buoyant commodity markets," it said. Platinum group metal production for the 2017 financial year is forecast to be 147,400oz and chrome output will be 1.3-million tonne, including 300,000 tonnes of specialty grade chrome in concentrate.