In its second-last rough diamond sale of the year, De Beers reported $470m in sales, marking a fresh low for the year in line with seasonal buying trends. The latest sale brings to $5.16bn the revenue realised from the sales to about 80 handpicked clients in Gaborone and through auctions so far this year, with just the last of the 10 annual sales left before the end of the year. De Beers revised upward its sales number for the eighth sale to $494m from the provisional $485m number it released in October. "Encouragingly, the ninth sales cycle of 2016 showed continued good demand for De Beers rough diamonds, with sales in line with expected seasonal demand patterns," said De Beers CE Bruce Cleaver. De Beers, the world’s largest producer of rough diamonds by value, is an 85% held subsidiary of Anglo American. According to Rapaport, a leading source of information on the diamond industry, De Beers sold $70m worth of diamonds in its ninth sale in 2015, something Cleaver said was “deliberate” to keep rough diamonds out of the market. Cleaver told Business Day in an interview last week the mood of De Beers’ clients “was generally very good” and they were “in a very good space”. Sales in the last two events of the year were generally quite small relative to those in the first half of the year when cutters and polishers were stocking up to prepare jewellery for the year-end sales period, he said. In 2015, the midstream of the diamond industry, which is the cutting and polishing segment, had too much rough and polished diamond stock, prompting De Beers and Alrosa, the leading producer by number of carats, to reduce sales and lower prices to encourage buying and to unclog the pipeline between miners and retailers. “The midstream is much more in balance than it was a year ago, as our customers tell us. Obviously, the Christmas selling season in the US is absolutely key so, assuming we have a reasonable Christmas, I would hope next year would be positive as people start restocking again,” Cleaver said. De Beers had sold its excess inventory during 2016, Cleaver said, adding the company expected diamond jewellery sales in the US between Thanksgiving and Christmas to grow by about 5%, roughly in line with 2015’s sales increase. The US is the single largest market for diamond jewellery, accounting for 45% of global demand for diamonds. About half of annual diamond jewellery consumption in the US happens in the year-end sales.