High-flying Cape Town City take a seven-match winning streak to Johannesburg this week for two tough clashes but they feel Kaizer Chiefs are there for the taking, while Wits might prove a whole lot tougher. Coach Eric Tinkler says Chiefs are not on form and can be beaten but is more wary about his team’s chances against his former club‚ where he began his playing and coaching career. After booking a place for themselves in the Telkom Knockout final‚ by beating Free State Stars 4-1 at home on Saturday‚ City play Chiefs at Soccer City on Tuesday night and will stay on in Johannesburg for Friday’s match away against Wits. "We are going there not just to play the fixtures. I believe we have a good opportunity to get points against Chiefs at this stage. I don’t think they are playing the best football they could‚" Tinkler said. "I don’t think they have the squad of past seasons. So we need to try and take advantage of that fact. "The Wits game is going to be extremely tough because it’s a different type of game. With Chiefs you know you are going out there and going to be playing a lot of football. "It’s going to be possession based. Chiefs are going to want to have the ball; we are going to want to have the ball. "But when you play Wits‚ it’s pressure football. The way Gavin [Hunt‚ Wits’ coach] plays the game‚ it’s: ‘Get the ball into the opponent’s half as quick as you can‚ look to play off the second ball’. "You are confronted with that pressure style. It will be about us being able to adapt in both circumstances," Tinkler said. City left for Johannesburg on Monday with an 18-match squad and will fly up two more players on Wednesday to supplement that. It will include central defender Robyn Johannes‚ who is suspended for the Chiefs match. At the same time, pressure is mounting on Chiefs coach Steve Komphela who is desperate for a win over City. The past few weeks have seen Amakhosi fans starting to lose patience as their team seems to have lost its way. Chiefs were booted out of the Telkom Knockout‚ leaving one cup opportunity this season left outside of the league for Komphela to win his first silverware‚ not just at Amakhosi‚ but anywhere. Amakhosi’s defeat on penalties in the Telkom quarterfinal against Free State Stars was followed by the 2-1 league loss against Mamelodi Sundowns‚ and a 1-1 draw at home against SuperSport United. In all three games, Chiefs had their moments, but they were not convincing enough over 90 minutes in any of them to be able to claim justifiably they should have been winners. Komphela’s complexity in his formations — introducing one of 3-5-2 against Stars and Sundowns, then reverting to a 4-5-1 against SuperSport — appears to have confused his players. That the coach could not find a place for on-form George Lebese within the 3-5-2 against Sundowns‚ and then replaced a well-performing Lebese with youngster Emmanuel Letlotlo against SuperSport‚ has confused the fans‚ who became openly hostile as a result of the latter decision. Making matters even more complicated was Komphela’s insistence that Chiefs played to a 3-4-3 formation against Downs. In contrast, Cape Town City have played things simple so effectively that they are in second place in the Premier Soccer League to Chiefs’ fifth. Then again‚ no one ever said coaching Amakhosi would be easy. The coming weeks will tell if Komphela can overcome the realities of his current situation and keep his place in that hottest of seats. TMG Digital