State Security Minister David Mahlobo says he is set to sue for defamation after allegations that he is linked to an illegal rhino horn trafficker. This comes after the airing of an Al Jazeera documentary‚ called The Poachers Pipeline‚ which reported that a "rhino horn trafficker bragged to Al Jazeera about his close connections to Mahlobo‚ who runs the country’s intelligence services". "I have taken legal action," Mahlobo said on Monday. "The allegations are very serious. I have spoken to the police commissioner. We have launched a formal inquiry. "If these allegations are being made against me‚ they are very serious for someone in my position. I have also asked that the activities that he is allegedly [involved] in ... law enforcement agencies should be able to take action‚" he told SAfm’s AM Live show with Sakina Kamwendo. Mahlobo’s remarks come after secretly recorded video shows Chinese citizen Guan Jiang Guang‚ a massage parlour owner in Mbombela‚ swiping through photographs on his phone that appear to show him and Mahlobo. Guang is heard saying: "He came to my massage parlour every week‚ or at least twice a month. I know him well? [He was] a guest at my home." One of the photographs appears to show Mahlobo with a young woman‚ said by Guan to be "one of my manicure girls". Mahlobo’s alleged relationship with Guan is significant, given the mandate of the State Security Agency‚ which he oversees‚ to provide government with critical intelligence on national security threats‚ including organised crime. Guan claimed he met Mahlobo when Mahlobo was head of the Department of Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs in Mpumalanga. In 2014‚ Mahlobo replaced Siyabonga Cwele as minister of state security. On Sunday night‚ Mahlobo’s office put out a statement, saying the allegations against him were "unfounded and slanderous". It said the documentary "purports a linkage and the involvement of minister Mahlobo in the illegal rhino horn trade" through his "visits to the local Mbombela Spa owned by a self-confessed criminal Guan Jiang Guang". "At the time minister Mahlobo visited the spa he had no idea as to what Mr Guang was involved in." TMG Digital