Taking South Africa out of the International Criminal Court is a huge step backwards for democracy here and in the rest of Africa. Finding bias in the ICC’s pursuit of African dictators is an exercise in cringeworthy bad faith. But what cannot be denied is that the current world human rights regime is not only letting dodgy leaders such as Tony Blair off the hook, but even allowing them to prance around as elder statesmen. Nothing very discomfiting has happened to the former British prime minister since the release of the Chilcot Commission into the UK’s part in the 2003 Allied invasion of Iraq, despite its damnation of Blair’s duplicity. And the reason is not hard to spot; the commission itself, not being a court of law, was set up to be ineffectual, avoiding through its terms of reference the key question of the legal underpinnings of the war. In so doing, it disabled itself from fully describing the revolution in contemporary warfare, which peaked with the invasion in Iraq, and which made the world as unsafe as it is today. Indeed, we are living in the era of war by lawyer. South Africa is seeing itself as a warrior against western imperialism, and it is in order to win the prime battle, the one in the courts, that it has taken this drastic step. In his book Virtual War, Michael Ignatieff shows how phalanxes of lawyers armed to the teeth with laptops, headphones and mics fitting like a GI Joe’s helmet came to be such an integral part of the western war effort. In the Vietnam War, there were no lawyers on the battlefield; in the Gulf War a few were consulted in the background, by the Kosovo war in 1999 "military lawyers had been integrated into every phase in the air campaign", he writes. For the Chilcot Commission to have left out the lawyers is like a war games designer leaving out the horses in a simulation of the Battle of Waterloo. Ignatieff’s argument is that the West had moved from the total war regime of the greater part of the 20th century, when civilians were mobilised en masse, to a popular pacifism in the 1990s after the Cold War. No longer beholden to military values such as heroism and male posturing, this decade saw the last systems of national conscription in the West being abolished. In these new times the demobilised voting public has to be lobbied hard to support wars. The media became key instruments of war as the military propaganda and disinformation divisions acquired a new strategic role. When the West bombed a TV station in Belgrade in the Kosovo War – because it was broadcasting too many clips of western precision bombing malfunctioning and killing civilians – the Serbian government failed to evacuate its personnel, and so engineered new massacre footage for its own propaganda machine to use. That was why lawyers became so important and why one is present during every strike by an Obama drone in Afghanistan – the Geneva Convention ethics, central in the civilian battle against the abuse of power, are now reduced to questions of legal interpretation. Civilian deaths are collateral, cause for tussles over compensation and not fits of compassion. The legal framework of the Iraqi invasion was that this was no new war. The Gulf War of 1991 had never stopped; its endgame had merely been postponed. As Ignatieff points out, nearly as much ordinance was dropped on Iraq during the West’s enforcement of the no-fly zone between the two Gulf wars as during the whole Kosovo campaign, notorious as one of the most intense in history. In this highly asymmetrical war, the outbombed Saddam went to work himself in using virtual war, applying a hearts and minds strategy that was completely misjudged by the secular western forces. Saddam harnessed the unlimited potential of religious conversion. And Saddam’s best weapon was American-made — the bombing of the Amariyah civilian bomb shelter in Baghdad in 1991, which killed 408 women and children. I visited it in 2003 just before the Allied invasion, and it was clear to me that the idea had been to send a message to Saddam’s generals — the shelter was in a suburb for military families — that they would keep on supporting Saddam at their loved ones’ peril. Good old Mafia terror straight from the badlands of New York. By 2003 Amariyah had become a shrine, taking pride of place among the many Muslim pilgrimage sites in and around the ancient city. Saddam had 2-million postcards of an iconic photo of the gaping smart missile hole — which would later be echoed in the shredded Twin Tower ruins of 9/11 — printed and distributed all over the Middle East. And whereas his regime used to sell itself on its secular leanings before 1991, he and his generals became devout and overt Muslims. From that visit to Iraq I took away two strong impressions, the deep hatred of Saddam, and the widespread display of his regime’s newfound religiosity. However, due to the success of Saddam’s propaganda, the hatred of the Americans was almost equally strong. One driver almost caused an accident as he agitatedly told me and others asking about help for Iraq from the outside world: "Just not the Americans, please, just keep the US out." Like Ignatieff, I was initially convinced that the war against the tyrant Saddam was justified. Ignatieff briefly ascribed to the argument that virtual war meant that it was also warranted to manipulate public opinion through the media into accepting any plausible motivation for the war – which is what George W Bush and Blair did with the weapons of mass destruction hoax. And indeed, according to the polls of the time the two did get a majority among their electorates on their side. (Ignatieff later repudiated his endorsement of the war). I only turned against the invasion after watching on TV as Bush set off the Shock and Awe destruction of Baghdad, which I felt was totally unnecessary and which immediately made it clear the Allies had no plan to democratise Iraq after the war. Years later, that was one of Chilcot’s most important findings. After the Gulf War, Saddam’s generals, many grieving their losses in Amariyah, had gradually become Islamified, but had the West had any sense, they would have exploited the widespread hatred of Saddam to turn Saddam’s sophisticated and well-run bureaucracy into a new pro-Western regime. The whole Middle East would have looked different today, and the war on terror might even have been won by now. In his history of Islamic State, Fawaz Gerges writes what happened instead. The de-Baathification of Iraq set loose hundreds of well-trained, well-armed former Saddam soldiers, whose religious conversions turned extreme like those of many new converts who have to prove themselves with ever more hyperbolical deeds. Today 30% of the Islamic State command is made up of former Iraqi army and police officers. Of course, none of this would have happened had Saddam been eliminated during the 1990s stage of the war. But Western hubris, refreshed by victory in the Cold War, had Western leaders believe that they could make Saddam their puppet in the delicate balance of forces in the Middle East. This was before Blair’s reign, but if his justification of the 2003 invasion, that Saddam was a genocidal dictator, is correct, then he would also have to argue it was a retrospective crime against humanity to keep him in power after the Gulf War. In the 1990s Gulf War the CIA instigated the so-called Marsh Arabs to revolt against Saddam, only for the US to abandon them as it put Saddam back in power. This atrocious bit of treachery saw this ethnic group decimated in revenge by Saddam, and made the Allies complicit in at least one clear-cut war crime. Even worse, it entrenched a genocidaire in the service of regional power politics. And eventually allowed him to win the war from the grave through monstrosities like Islamic State with its worldwide underground network and virtual war zones on the internet. Had their guiding light been human rights as the West pretends it is, and as it demands from Africans, Saddam might have gone on trial and been executed a decade before he eventually was, and the Middle East would have been a very different place today.