If the Brexit vote came as a shock, the election on Wednesday of Donald Trump as the next US president is a bombshell, compounding a sense that the lights are going out everywhere on openness and modernity and globalisation, and even just a sense of simple decency. Just as Brexit revealed changes in UK society that the pollsters and the mainstream politicians had hardly noticed, so the US presidential election told a similar story, of the expansion of a deeply disaffected population of Americans, most of them white, working class and without college education, who feel left behind by globalisation and technological change. The US election results reflected deep divides between educated and uneducated, urban and rural, just as Brexit did. It reflected the desire of a very large group of Americans who, far from being horrified by Trump’s racism, xenophobia, misogyny and general brashness, were attracted by it because it represented a challenge to the American political establishment, with its overwrought political correctness and stifling condescension. There are political lessons here for leaders everywhere, in government and in opposition, who are out of touch with many in the electorate and fail to spot the gulf between the way they see the world and the way many voters see it. There are powerful lessons too about the extent to which exclusion from the economy and rising inequality, if left unattended, can have dire political consequences. Those are lessons as much in this country as they are in the US or UK, and leaders everywhere need to note them. The trouble with Trump is we simply do not know what his administration might look like — there is little clarity on what policies he will pursue, never mind what his capacity to implement them will be. In itself, that degree of uncertainty can only be bad for the US and for the global economy, and that is reflected in the hit that global markets and currencies including the rand, took on Wednesday. We do know, however, that the Trump stance is biased against trade and globalisation and is likely to see a more isolationist US. Many of the signature achievements of the Barack Obama years could be rolled back, such as Obamacare and climate-change policy and the nuclear deal with Iran. But it is far from clear exactly what the US under Trump will look like in terms of foreign policy or economic policy. Chances are that it may not be particularly good for emerging markets in general and SA in particular. On the aid side, the substantial HIV/AIDS funding that SA has had could be at risk. BMI Research notes that the effect of the Trump victory on sub-Saharan Africa is likely to reflect a more isolationist foreign policy and that trade flows could be affected, while US aid flows could be pulled back. The US is one of SA’s largest export destinations and more than a third of our exports depend on Agoa legislation, which could well be at risk. US monetary policy also tends to have a big effect on SA’s currency and capital flows, so there will be an effect there too, and the bottom line is SA’s economy could well take pain. Policy makers should start putting contingency plans in place. It is tempting for SA to use this as the trigger to line itself up even more closely with the Brics nations, but that would not necessarily be a good idea, economically or politically. A pullback from the free movement of goods and services, capital and labour will undermine growth, particularly for SA and its emerging market peers who depend on free trade. Taken together, Brexit, the Trump victory and a host of other indicators around the world constitute the flash-points within glacial, global shifts that are establishing a new and unsettled world order. It is a time for caution, reflection and, as strange as it may seem, hope.