Two more SABC board members have resigned, leaving the board of the troubled broadcaster with just one member — chairman Mbulaheni Maguvhe. The news that Nomvuyo Mhlakaza and Aaron Tshidzumba were stepping down emerged ahead of an ad hoc committee meeting “for the first time” to elect a chairperson to deal with the inquiry into the fitness to hold office of the remaining members of the board. The Presidency announced on Tuesday that President Jacob Zuma had received and accepted their resignations, with immediate effect. Parliament is preparing to hold an inquiry into the fitness to hold office of the remaining SABC board members. The inquiry is scheduled to get under way before the end of November. With only one board member remaining it was unclear whether the inquiry would continue as planned. The newly elected chairman of the ad hoc committee, Vincent Smith, suggested on Tuesday that it would, because as far as the committee was concerned “there are three board members”. “We cannot rely on the media on that one,” he said, referring to the reports of the latest resignations. “As far as I am concerned there are three individuals until told otherwise. I am hoping members (of the ad hoc committee) can bear with us on that one,” he said during the committee’s first meeting. The ad hoc committee tasked with holding the inquiry met on Tuesday to finalise the programme. The inquiry will start on November 29 and continue its work through the December break. The programme is expected to be finalised by December 25 or 26. During the meeting it is due to “receive legal advice on how to proceed with the inquiry and to consider and adopt the committee programme”. The crisis at the public broadcaster is largely about former chief operating officer Hlaudi Motsoeneng. He lost his job in September when the Supreme Court of Appeal dismissed his application for leave to appeal against a ruling by the High Court in Cape Town setting aside his permanent appointment. The SABC then announced that it had reappointed Motsoeneng to his previous post as group executive for corporate affairs. The Motsoeneng reappointment saga sparked the resignation in Parliament in October of two board members — Krish Naidoo and Vusi Mavuso. They distanced themselves from the SABC board presentation to MPs justifying his reappointment as group executive for corporate affairs. In October, Parliament’s communications portfolio committee members agreed unanimously that the board should be dissolved after the resignation of the two board members. MPs gave the remaining board members an ultimatum: quit or be forced out through a parliamentary inquiry. With TMG Digital 