Talk show legend, Radio 702&rsquo;s John Robbie, who has hosted the station&rsquo;s breakfast show for 15 years, says he is "both excited and scared" about leaving the airwaves he has dominated for so long.He has made the news and broken news ranging from politics to sport and elicited comment &mdash; often in robust exchanges &mdash; on his show.His imminent departure has dismayed thousands of Gautengers who have been John Robbie-d awake and arrive at work fully appraised of local and international news."But I&rsquo;m not retiring!" he exclaims as he shows me his modest desk in the corner of the huge 702 open-plan office. It&rsquo;s groaning with pictures of his wife Jennie, adult children and two grandsons. "I have to leave as I&rsquo;ve run out of space for my family here."Many an anguished caller to Robbie&rsquo;s show couldn&rsquo;t believe he was retiring in the week he turned 61. "Retire" was the word used by 702 in its press statement announcing his departure."People thought I was going to sit by the sea with my pipe and slippers," he chuckles.He handed in his resignation about six weeks ago "because 30 years at 702 is enough. I want to do something totally different from broadcasting, and if I don&rsquo;t do it now, I never will."He&rsquo;s open to offers and hopes his passion for putting SA, and Johannesburg in particular, on the international tourist map will attract attention.He wants something that lights his fire as well as makes him money. He&rsquo;s not sure what, if anything, he&rsquo;ll miss about 702."That&rsquo;s what makes me fearful &ndash; I just don&rsquo;t know."One thing he will definitely not miss is rising at 2.15am every weekday to be in the office by 3am. "I&rsquo;m desperately looking forward to some semblance of normalcy," he says.On a typical day, Robbie has a finger on SA&rsquo;s news pulse by 4am and is able to sense what he calls "the mood of the country".A little girl from Alexandra, torn from her parents by floodwaters on November 9, was recently "the mood".Nothing has changed since Peter Bruce, editor-in-chief of BDFM Publishers, wrote of Robbie three years ago: "You have to be on top of your game to even vaguely disturb 702&rsquo;s brilliant morning presenter &hellip; he works harder than anyone in radio."Robbie arrived in SA in 1980 playing for an Irish rugby team despite boycotts urged by antiapartheid activists around the world. He instantly fell in love with the country. "But I will carry that decision, to play [rugby] here, to the grave," he says with the frankness that also characterises his show.He and wife Jennie, whom he met on a school bus near Dublin when he was 15 and she 13 years old, became South Africans and raised a family. Their stable marriage has been the anchor in his life.In the mid-1980s, Robbie became a salesman, selling centrifugal pumps to senior engineers at companies such as Sasol. He said on air on his 61st birthday, "Once you can do sales, you can do anything."He proved his point by calling 702 in the 1980s with comments at a time when talk radio didn&rsquo;t exist. The station soon hired him for a sports show.When 702&rsquo;s format changed to talk radio in early 1990, Robbie was a natural host, interviewing returning exiles and freed Robben Island prisoners.This raised the profile of the small station that nearly went bankrupt at one stage, as South Africans voiced their hopes and fears on air in one of the most turbulent, unstable periods of its recent history.Former 702 MD Mike Wills says Robbie&rsquo;s skill lies in "taking the most difficult and convoluted of issues, distilling it and then presenting it in such a manner that people really get it".But this forthright, albeit balanced and fair approach, raised hackles on the left and right of society. He received death threats, his home had armed guards and a Casspir followed him to a rugby match.As democracy deepened and the ANC government came under fire, notably over its HIV/AIDS denialism, Robbie tackled former health minister Manto Tshabalala-Msimang about it."The ANC wanted me fired and put pressure on Primedia," he recalls. He apologised for calling the minister "Manto" on air. "That was not right &mdash; you have to respect the position. But I did not apologise for calling her on the AIDS situation. It was insane," he says.Robbie is known to have kicked down a door or two when his frustration boiled over, but the famous Irish temper has cooled with time. He is banting, fit and slim, and his energy is palpable.He says his best interview was with eccentric middleweight English boxer Chris Eubank. Notoriously difficult, he arrived dressed in jodhpurs, a bowler hat and a monocle. After the interview, he shook Robbie&rsquo;s hand and said he had to come to Africa to have the best interview he had ever done.While chatting about the many great politicians, sports stars and businesspeople he has interviewed in his career, a notable softness creeps into Robbie&rsquo;s slightly raspy voice when he mentions Archbishop Emeritus Desmond Tutu."In an interview after receiving his Nobel Prize, he said my show was not a show, but a mission," he recalls.His favourite interviews are with "ordinary people who tell me incredible stories &mdash; some good, bad and downright wacky", Robbie says.One of the wackiest was an alleged Australian faith healer who announced he was Jesus Christ reincarnated.The lines went crazy, "and theologians, among others, threatened to close down the radio station", he says.One of his favourite stories was the woman who called in to say that what she hated most about Robbie was the way he always tried to find the best in every situation. "I was about to apologise when I thought, hold on a second&hellip;."Robbie has no intention of leaving SA."I&rsquo;m still extremely optimistic about it. I think it could be the greatest country in the world but it has to get its economy right," he says.He is firmly convinced that tourism is the way to build the economy because it creates so many jobs. It infuriates him that political uncertainty, birth certificate dramas and visa troubles are hampering potential hordes of tourists.Robbie is expecting a revolution in SA &mdash; "not in terms of breaking any laws, but one that will re-establish a just and ethical society. I think that is going to happen."