The rand breached the R14/$ resistance level on Monday following the debt-ratings news at the weekend but retreated later in choppy trade on uncertainty about the outcome of the ANC’s national executive committee meeting in Pretoria. Politics has become the main issue affecting SA’s ratings, with economics less of a burning issue, analysts say. The rand reached R13.7215/$, its best in nearly three weeks in late trade on Monday from R14.03 on Friday, after reports that 34 members of the committee wanted President Jacob Zuma to step down. Bond yields were also firmer, with the benchmark R186 bid at 8.86% in intraday trade, before softening to 8.89%. Fitch lowered its outlook to negative on Friday, though Fitch and Moody’s left their ratings unchanged. The focus has now shifted to S&P Global Ratings’ announcement due on Friday, which has more potential for a downgrade to subinvestment (junk) status. The market does not appear unduly worried about the possibility, as the political ramifications are expected to be bigger than the economic outcome. Fitch specifically cited ANC infighting as one of the reasons for its negative outlook. The rand is expected to strengthen if Zuma is removed or if his standing is weakened. "A downgrade would not tell the markets anything they did not already know," said Capital Economics analyst John Ashbourne. He said a downgrade would have little effect on the government’s borrowing costs. "Just 11% of government debt is denominated in foreign currency, against Turkey’s 35%." Momentum Investment’s Herman van Papendorp and Sanisha Packirisamy said SA was not out of the woods yet. "S&P can send a strong signal to SA by lowering the two-notch gap between SA’s local and foreign ratings. But even with the expected one-notch downgrade in the local currency rating by S&P, the rating would still be two notches away from sub-investment grade on Moody’s and S&P’s rankings," they said. The risk of a downgrade had clearly risen, said Stanlib economist Kevin Lings. "Moody’s statement was significantly less upbeat than their previous announcement in May," he said.