It has already been a big year for top apprentice Callan Murray, but the Johannesburg-born youngster’s career continues to blossom as 2016 draws to its close. In August, Murray received the trophy for leading apprentice at the annual Equus awards and he was in the spotlight again last Saturday, when winning the grade2 Choice Carriers Championship on Mike de Kock’s Aussie-bred filly Ektifaa. Next weekend, motocross fan Murray hopes his rivals will see dust when he rides Vodacom Durban July winner The Conglomerate in the R1m Peermont Emperors Palace Charity Mile at Turffontein. Although not many pundits fancied Ektifaa to upset the home contingent in Saturday’s feature race at Kenilworth, Ektifaa proved she is on the upgrade and may now be aimed at the grade1 Cape Fillies Guineas. Murray revealed after the race that it had not been plain sailing for his mount. "I wanted to be up there but she reared before the gates opened. But we managed to get into a beautiful position in second place on the fence. In the straight, she was looking to lug out, but was going too well and went on nicely." Geoff Woodruff’s charge, Deo Juvente, was expected to be Murray’s mount in the Charity Mile, but there was a late switch and he will now partner Joe Ramsden’s The Conglomerate. Chase Maujean will now be aboard Woodruff’s runner whom Murray partnered to victory in last season’s Victory Moon Stakes. Turffontein host their first night meeting of the season on Tuesday and Murray has a chance of winning the first race on Michael Azzie’s runner, Pajama Party. But he will be aware that he faces some choicely bred rivals, including two newcomers from the powerful stables of Sean Tarry and Mike de Kock. Tarry sends out the Silvano colt Hamaan, while De Kock introduces an American-bred three-year-old in Aladeel. In addition, trainer Candice Dawson could have a say with her runner Mess, who finished a creditable fourth on debut. Another possible winner for Murray is Captain Chips, who has the advantage of pole position in the jackpot final leg. It could be a successful evening for De Kock and Delpech as both Unrehearsed and Public Protector look to have outstanding chances in the third and fourth races. The former may be the safer wager of the two as Public Protector faces two tough opponents in hat-trick-seeking Modjadji and the consistent Shivering Sea. Piere Strydom could land a double on Tuesday on Cherokee Grey and Hermoso Mundo in the final leg of the Pick 6. Once again, it is a De Kock inmate, Talbec, who rates the main threat to Hermoso Mundo in the eighth race.