News from some of SA’s leading retail groups lately has not been good and their share prices have been hammered accordingly. This is hardly surprising, given what’s been happening for South African consumers. Unemployment has been rising, and disposable incomes have been sliding, with disposable income in the second quarter of 2016 up just 1.2% in real (inflation-adjusted) terms on the same quarter in 2015. Banks and other lenders have been tightening up on consumer credit, with more than half of new credit applications rejected by credit providers in the first half of 2016. Consumer confidence has continued to fall and is at its lowest level since the financial crisis. The Reserve Bank reported that real household consumption expenditure, which was negative in the first quarter of 2016, grew just 1% in the second quarter. Barclays economists now expect household consumption expenditure to rise a mere 0.4% in 2016 and just 0.9% in 2017, after quite muted growth of 2.2% in 2015. SA’s economy has long relied on strong consumer spending, even in times of economic weakness: that’s certainly not the case now. And since consumer spending accounts for as much as two-thirds of GDP, the sad state of the consumer puts a big damper on SA’s economic outlook. Retail sales figures for September due out this week are likely to show more of the same, with Investec economists predicting year-on-year growth of just 1%, while the new quarterly labour force survey is expected to show that the unemployment rate has stayed well above 26%. At the same time, clothing retailers have faced increased competition as new international brands such as Cotton On and H&M have moved successfully into SA’s retail space, competing for that limited pool of consumer rands. SA’s retail groups have done surprisingly well until recently, but the strain is clearly showing. Retailers are reporting growth in sales, but much of that reflects new store space and inflation — strip those out and the sales numbers, in many cases, have gone negative. Latest to come out with a bleak trading update is Woolworths, which reported disappointing sales figures at its Australian operations — and even more disappointing ones in SA. For the first 19 weeks of its financial year, Woolworths’ clothing and general merchandise reported sales growth of 2%, which is negative if inflation of 7% and additional space of 2.9% is considered. The Woolworths update followed one from TFG (the former Foschini), whose executives described trading conditions as the toughest yet, while Truworths earlier reported a 1% decline in sales for the first 18 weeks of 2016, which is a decline of as much as 20% stripping out inflation, acquisitions and new stores. Nor is it just clothing and food — Massmart also reported recently that sales growth of 5.3% excluding new stores for the first 44 weeks of its financial year had failed to keep pace with inflation. Consumers are not buying hardware or appliances either, especially given the rising price of imports. Most dramatic, perhaps, was the announcement recently by iconic department store Stuttafords that it had put itself into voluntary business rescue, after seeing a dramatic fall in turnover and margins since February this year. The retailer’s management team believes it will not have to go into liquidation and no doubt much effort is going into preventing that outcome. With economic growth and consumer spending not expected to stage a meaningful recovery soon, SA’s retail landscape is sure to remain tough – and chances are that only the best operators will be able to survive and thrive.