The year 2016 will be remembered as the year that mainstream media died (after a long illness bravely borne). It fought a valiant battle and although the seriousness of its condition was not immediately known, the election of Donald Trump as the 45th US president left little doubt it is time for its burial. This is not about Trump. It is about the fact that close to 60-million people voted for him and no one in the media saw it coming. They were so caught up in their own echo chamber that they forgot their role is to report the news and not to influence it. They were so convinced by their own writing, and by their own view of life, that they neglected to look out of their offices to what was happening on the street below. It reminds me of some business meetings I have attended. The scene: a few business people walk into a boardroom. The meeting begins. The person with the most influence in the room announces the sky today is purple. There is silence. Contemplation. In an attempt to get on his good side, a few juniors nod their heads and find a way to support this theory. Because it makes sense. Within 40 minutes, the entire group is so convinced by this "purpleness" that when they leave the boardroom, anyone who questions the notion (by venturing that the sky is blue) is viewed with horror and disdain. They have to be ostracised because their narrative is unsettling. And besides, anyone who is anyone knows that the sky today is fantastically purple. Which makes the Trump story and the Brexit story so interesting. The media did not want either to happen. And because they did not want it, they told us it would not. And because they said it would not, we believed them. Because they are convincing and they are the media and they are meant to report on the news. Only, Brexit did happen and Trump became president, because something has changed, and because people who actually look at the sky can see exactly what the colour is. In its attempt to influence the outcome, the mainstream media has discredited itself. The rabid and hysterical response to Trump increased in intensity as the man became more popular. But the more it did so, the less impartial they appeared and the less influence they would have. They were neither reporting the news nor influencing it. Which sounds a pretty miserable place to be. If you are the media. The hysteria was not confined to the US media. A respected South African journalist tweeted on hearing of Trump’s success: "We forget that majority of Americans aren’t liberal New Yorkers or what we see in LA movies. Majority are simple minded bigots evidently." Seriously? And with not a hint of irony? Who is the bigot here? Are these the same Americans who were able to elect a black president twice? Are the 60-million Americans who voted for Trump really all simple-minded? Or is it, perhaps, that they have grown weary of being instructed to believe the sky is whatever colour they are told it is. The arrogance is astounding. By its insistence on scripting the narrative, the mainstream media has forced people to seek answers elsewhere. Social media, notoriously inaccurate, sensationalist (and angry) is easily accessible and in no time at all, becomes personalised according to one’s stance. It is a write-your-own-story model in terms of which the user can choose to follow or friend people with like-minded views. Even without realising it. This means all those who wish to believe the sky is an angry shade of orange can structure their feeds to create the very same echo chamber that the media does. Only it is more personal and therefore more likely to stick. Mainstream media is dead in its current form. If it expects to have any future, it needs to move quickly through the denial, anger and bargaining stages. It has to hurry along to accept it has lost its way and that it needs to return to the basics. Mainstream media needs to report the news. It needs to stop trying to write history and should rather inform. It needs to accept the importance of the role it plays and to recognise its deep responsibility. But mostly, it needs to get out of the boardroom, look up to the sky and let us know what the colour is. And not what it wants it to be. • Feldman is the author of Carry On Baggage and a talk show host on ChaiFm 101.9.