* This article has been amended for clarification South African Revenue Service (SARS) employee Luther Lebelo is moonlighting as the national head of communications for Mzwanele Manyi’s Progressive Professionals Forum (PPF) — an arch-opponent of his Treasury bosses. In a letter published in Business Day on Monday, Lebelo took a swipe at credit rating agencies, which he said were "economic gangs" organised by the CIA and used by SA’s Western oppressors to whip the country into line and to impose their own preferred economic and social system. Lebelo wrote the letter in his personal capacity. SARS reports to the Treasury and Lebelo’s attack could easily be seen as a classic act of biting the hand that feeds. But SARS said it "acknowledges that Mr Luther Lebelo is an employee. He is not a spokesperson, but has been delegated to speak for the organisation on issues related to employee relations. "Mr Lebelo has declared his participation in the said organisation. SARS holds the view that any media communication representing an employee’s personal opinion as a private citizen and not associated with SARS does not require pre-approval." Lebelo wrote in the letter that the ANC had been "tamed and managed" by the rating agencies at the expense of the poor and unemployed masses. DA finance spokesman David Maynier said he was astounded to see Lebelo "bombing" the ruling party and Treasury on the letters page of Business Day. "I think that Mr Lebelo would be well advised to keep his mad views, including the fact that rating agencies are ‘organised economic gangs’, to himself as long as he remains an employee of SARS," he said. "However, the real issue is this: was the letter and the contents of the letter, approved or authorised by anybody at SARS? I will, therefore, be submitting a parliamentary question, probing whether Luther Lebelo’s letter was authorised and whether any disciplinary action will be taken against him by SARS." Manyi is a staunch supporter of President Jacob Zuma and regularly attacks the president’s opponents. He was strident in his criticism of the four big banks when they cut ties with Gupta-linked companies. He has taken several potshots at the Treasury and slammed the state capture report of former public protector Thuli Madonsela. He also submitted allegations of corruption against the head of the Office of the Public Procurement Officer, Kenneth Brown, with the police. • Luther Lebelo is the national head of communication at the Progressive Professional Forum, not its spokesman. Lebelo is the group executive: employment relations at SARS. He wrote to Business Day in his personal capacity. The article has been amended to reflect this. We regret any inconvenience caused.