ArcelorMittal SA says the Department of Trade and Industry encouraged it to share information with Highveld Steel in order to protect SA’s steel exports to the US, EU and Canada during the 10 years to 2009. At the recent Competition Tribunal hearing, ArcelorMittal acknowledged there had been an exchange of information with Highveld Steel but argued this was not a contravention of the Competition Act. Garth Strachan, deputy director-general at the department, said on Wednesday any inference that his department had encouraged collusion was regrettable. He accepted that the department did encourage companies in any sector to work through industry associations and export councils to maximise exports. "Where there might be competition issues, we assist those companies in engaging with the competition authorities. It is a difficult balance but it has to be struck," Strachan said. As part of its record settlement with the competition authorities, ArcelorMittal has undertaken to be " transparent" about any discussions it has regarding the promotion of steel exports in the future. Exchanging information with competitors, which is a key indicator of collusion, is strictly prohibited by the Competition Act. ArcelorMittal admitted to the Competition Commission that it had provided monthly sales volume figures in respect of flat steel products to the South African Iron & Steel Institute (SAISI). It also acknowledged SAISI shared this information with Highveld and that ArcelorMittal had received similar information about Highveld. During the hearing, ArcelorMittal’s legal team said the information exchange was set up as a result of the department’s efforts to promote exports. "What happened is that the DTI [Department of Trade and Industry], in a wish to promote exports, took a number of parties, including ArcelorMittal, on a trip overseas to try and build exports." After the trip, SAISI’s export monitoring committee alerted the local steel manufacturers to antidumping regimes in the US, EU and Canada. "As a country, we had to avoid triggering the antidumping thresholds, so someone had to be able to say ‘we are reaching the threshold’," Michael van der Nest (SC) told the tribunal. SAISI collected the information from the steel producers so it could warn them when the collective exports were reaching a level that sparked antidumping measures. Van der Nest said there was no attempt to instruct the individual companies on how much they could export. "We didn’t conclude any agreement with any other participant on who would export what and how much to any particular country. "It was a national imperative to not have antidumping duties imposed on anyone," said Van der Nest, who pointed out that because the information related to export markets, local competition authorities did not have jurisdiction. When told the export monitoring committee no longer existed, tribunal chairman Norman Manoim said the likelihood of the US moving into a more protectionist phase could see it being resurrected. "This has dangerous implications for people who are otherwise competitors in the domestic market." Van der Nest said ArcelorMittal would be "more than happy to give an undertaking as to a transparent process".