Orlando Pirates chairman Irvin Khoza has accepted coach Muhsin Ertugral’s resignation, but at the same time said he could have persuaded the coach to remain at the club. This follows Pirates’ record 6-1 thrashing at the hands of SuperSport United in their Premier Soccer League game at Mbombela Stadium in Nelspruit on Tuesday. Khoza told a media conference at Rand Stadium on Wednesday he had received Ertugral’s resignation by e-mail. The coach stated in his postmatch television interview he would meet Khoza on Wednesday to offer his resignation. "I won’t waste time except to say that yesterday [on Tuesday] evening in the interview, the coach gave an indication that he’s disappointed with the result, and he’s seeing the chairman today to discuss his future," Khoza said. "When I woke up this morning, I realised I had received an e-mail at 3.30am from the coach," he said. Khoza read out the e-mail. "I feel sorry and regret not being able to turn around [the team’s form]," the coach wrote. Khoza said: "When I read his letter I was left with no option. Unfortunately, between the coach and us, I cannot disclose the terms of our parting. "We wish him well wherever he is going, but I would have loved if he had engaged me first before expressing his frustration," Khoza said. "Because you will remember whenever we part with coaches, it is always in a dignified manner." At the same time, Khoza said he would have "easily convinced" Ertugral to stay. "I remember when Gordon Igesund won the league at Pirates, he wanted to resign in October. I refused," Khoza said. "I’m telling you [the media] that for the first time – ask him [Igesund]. And then he went on to win the league at Pirates. "If I had accepted it, he would not have won that trophy. "I always give the coach the benefit of the doubt. I want to hear his point of view, or whether he is overreacting, or if I think there are things we can correct — unless there are issues from his side that are pressing, where he feels his health is no longer safe. "So I would have tried to persuade him [Ertugral] – all of them I persuade. Because I think it’s not nice to lose a coach at this time of the season," Khoza said. "We were willing to give the coach a chance because I think we are not perfect, all of us. With his [Ertugral’s] experience, we thought he would add value. "But if he had given me a chance, it would have been easy for me to persuade him not to resign. I always do my best because it always looks easy from the outside [to coach Pirates]. But when you come inside, there is so much pressure," he said. Pirates head of development Augusto Palacios is to stand in as caretaker coach. TMG Digital