Negotiations at the National Economic Development and Labour Council (Nedlac) over a threatened national strike for free education could provide the basis for the government, business, labour and students to come together in a structured way to seek solutions to the fees crisis. That is the view from the business chamber at Nedlac ahead of a third meeting, on Monday, on Cosatu’s application in October for a section 77 notice to protest. Cosatu, which has called for a wealth tax to help fund free education, last week accused the government and big business of "arrogance", saying the government continued to undermine Nedlac by sending junior bureaucrats with no decision-making power. The trade union federation said all issues relating to free education must be discussed at Nedlac "and nowhere else", and the demands did not need a commission of inquiry. Higher Education Minister Blade Nzimande has thus far not appeared at the Nedlac meetings on the free education issue. And though the issue is being considered by an interministerial task team, the commission of inquiry led by Judge Jonathan Heher and a National Student Financial Aid Scheme review, there has been little attempt by the government to consult business or organised labour. Business is keen to see the kind of structured, high-level consultation process on the fees crisis that Nedlac had on the labour relations and national minimum wage package, where a committee of principals led by the deputy president commissioned technical research and is due to sign off a final package of measures within weeks. Business Unity SA (Busa) has called on all the social partners to use the Nedlac process to seek solutions for funding higher education to meet the needs of an inclusive economy. "We think it necessary that there is a consultation with the social partners in a structured way so that we have a sustainable model, and so that we can protect the institutions to ensure there is quality education coming out of those institutions," said Tanya Cohen, who represents business at Nedlac. Business is a significant funder of SA’s higher education and training through its R18bn-a-year contribution to the 1% skills development levy. This goes to the sector education and training authorities, which reported unspent funds of R3bn in 2015-16. There is another R5bn or so in statutory requirements and regulated black economic empowerment contributions by business to training and development. Over and above this is corporate social investment of about R2bn-R3bn. Busa estimates that business makes a substantial contribution to higher education funding in the form of bursaries of at least R1bn annually.