The Davis Tax Committee does not believe an increase in the VAT rate is a good option for raising revenue "at this stage", Judge Dennis Davis said on Tuesday. His comment, made during a briefing on the committee’s work to Parliament’s finance committee, comes as Treasury looks for extra revenue to fill a gaping hole in its funding needs. The medium-term budget policy statement tabled by Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan in October warned that additional tax revenue of R28bn would be needed next year to meet government’s fiscal consolidation and deficit reduction targets. A further R15bn will be needed in 2017-18. A rise in the VAT rate has been suggested as one of the options for increasing tax revenue in a situation where low growth, high debt service costs and expenditure commitments are putting a strain on government’s financial resources. Davis said his committee had conducted a detailed study of the VAT tax gap to determine whether the 14% rate delivered what was expected of it. The judge said the system was "astoundingly efficient" — it was one of the most efficient VAT systems in the world because it had one rate and there was a narrow band of zero rating and exemptions. He noted that the committee was in the process of finalising a second VAT report, which it hoped to submit to Treasury by early next year. Davis cautioned, however, that the tax system could not solve all the problems facing SA and that structural impediments to economic growth needed to be addressed by the government as a whole. It was also important that taxpayers were confident their taxes were being spent "wisely and prudently", he said. The committee was appointed in July 2013 and has already finalised 19 reports, including on small and medium enterprises, base erosion and profit shifting, macro analysis, VAT, estate duty and mining. It has also advised the minister on the Border Management Agency Bill and on the funding of tertiary education. It is still considering the feasibility of wealth taxes and the taxation of trusts. Regarding wealth taxes, Davis said the committee believed the implementation of a capital transfer tax should be postponed at least until more substantial research to justify this had been concluded. He noted the committee did not concur with the argument that the imposition of estate duty and capital gains tax on death was tantamount to "double taxation". Capital gains tax was widely regarded as a tax on capital income and was not considered to be a wealth tax. "A high proportion of SA’s wealth is held in retirement funds. Thus a wealth tax will be effective only if it targets the R3.2-trillion held in retirement funds. The tax on retirement funds attempted this but failed and was withdrawn," Davis told MPs. He said the committee hoped to finalised its work in the next 12 months.