Matatiele, a picturesque little town in the southern Drakensberg, on the border of the Eastern Cape, KwaZulu-Natal and southern Lesotho, has a colourful history. In the 19th century it had a reputation as a home of cattle rustlers, horse thieves, gun runners and smugglers of all sorts, who wreaked havoc in neighbouring villages and then retreated into Matatiele’s mountains to evade revenge attacks. Today Matatiele — which means "the ducks that have fled" — is a small farming town supplying local villages, which has been in the news over its fight to be returned from the Eastern Cape to KwaZulu-Natal. That looks like a possibility now. Optimism was renewed after the African Independent Congress (AIC) — formed in Matatiele in 2005 with the specific aim of fighting for the town and surrounding areas to be reincorporated into KwaZulu-Natal from the Eastern Cape — agreed to use the votes it won during the local government elections in August to help the ANC govern many hung municipalities, including the Ekurhuleni metro. In exchange, it demanded that Matatiele be reincorporated into KwaZulu-Natal, and gave the ANC six months to finalise the move or kiss their coalition goodbye. But this is not an easy task, as it requires — among other things — a constitutional amendment and negotiations between all three spheres of government. After the 2005 local government elections Matatiele was moved from KwaZulu-Natal to the Eastern Cape as part of the Twelfth Amendment of the Constitution of SA. The move was vehemently opposed by many residents, some of whom formed the AIC. The party and the local community managed to get the Constitutional Court to set it aside — in 2006 the court said there had been inadequate consultation — and the government began the consultation process anew. Residents complained that the consultation process this time round was a mere box-ticking exercise, and said non-residents were bussed in to take part, but the 13th amendment was passed and the town’s move to the Eastern Cape provincial administration completed. Now, Matatiele residents says they are excited about the prospect of returning to the KwaZulu-Natal government. Kholeka Majezi, a local supermarket worker, said local residents have been fighting valiantly for this to happen. "It is about time that our struggle have borne fruition. It has been a long and tortuous journey. We have to travel more than 600km to Bisho (the Eastern Cape capital) to sort out our administrative stuff whereas Pietermaritzburg (the KwaZulu-Natal capital) is only 260km away. Besides, we are economically closer to KwaZulu-Natal than we are to the Eastern Cape," she said. Matatiele residents who needed to go to a specialist hospital, for instance — a competency of the provincial government — would have to go to Bisho. Teachers who had to present themselves to their provincial headquarters for a headcount or for disciplinary hearings likewise would have to travel the 600km to Bisho. And families trying to resolve deceased estates might have to go all the way to Bisho to change property ownership deeds. But Brian Thompson, a Matatiele mechanic, said he doubted whether the politicians would be able to accomplish the relocation. "Look, many people want to go back to KwaZulu-Natal. This is because when we were under KwaZulu-Natal the roads were better maintained but now the council say it doesn’t have money to fill up potholes. But I think this is another false hope that we will be relocated to KwaZulu-Natal. Our hopes have been raised many times before," he said. Mandla Galo, president and founding leader of the AIC, said they expect the process of unconditionally relocating Matatiele to KwaZulu-Natal province to begin soon after all the municipality councils have been inaugurated. "We had made it very clear to the ANC leaders when we met at St Georges Hotel that we don’t trust the ANC leaders after they had let us down many times before. They told us to give them a chance and they will be sincere and accede to our demand. So far they seem to be genuine and we are hopeful that we will be able to have Matatiele back in KwaZulu-Natal between three and six months." He said ANC leaders who were part of the negotiating team, including ANC general secretary Gwede Mantashe, said the process had to involve Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs Minister Des van Rooyen, the Matatiele municipality, and the KwaZulu-Natal and Eastern Cape provincial governments. "If they fail to honour this agreement we will act swiftly, pull out of the coalition and apply for the vote of no confidence against the mayors we helped to elect," Galo warned. The ANC-AIC deal was more beneficial to the ANC in Ekurhuleni. Its mayor, Mduduzi Masina, is noncommittal on the ANC’s capacity to deliver on its part of the deal. "As the region we had agreed to the take the matter of Matatiele to the national executive committee of the ANC. We have done that now. Another part of the deal was on good governance in Ekurhuleni and that we are continuously doing," he said. ANC spokesman Zizi Kodwa told Business Day that his party had agreed to talks about the possible reincorporation. "We have been very busy constituting councils in municipalities across the country. Now we are going to begin the process of negotiations with the AIC. We cannot speculate on the results of these negotiations … we just have to wait and see," Kodwa said.