Cardiff — Saturday’s Test against Wales has more than pride riding on it because it poses the last realistic chance for the Springboks to move back into the top four of the World Rugby rankings. When the latest rankings were published on Monday, SA had fallen to No5 — their lowest end-of-year ranking since 2003 — after losing 20-18 to Italy in Florence last Saturday. Normally world rankings would not be that important at the end of year, but as it is the last Test the Boks will play before the draw for the 2019 World Cup takes place in May, they have no other opportunity to climb back up the ladder. The teams in the Six Nations, all have five more Tests to move up. Currently Wales are sixth, and a win over the Boks could see the two swapping places. The Welsh would also have an entire Six Nations to play to improve their rankings, and so would Scotland and France, who currently occupy seventh and eighth place. The reason being in the top four is so vital is that when the draw for the World Cup is done, it eliminates the chance of being pooled in a so-called "group of death". Next May teams ranked one to four will be top seeds in Pool A, B, C, and D for the World Cup in 2019. The following four teams on the rankings are slotted in by random draw, followed by the next four and so on. At the World Cup in 2015, England, Australia and Wales were drawn together because Wales were ninth in the world rankings when the draw was done in 2013. By the time the 2015 World Cup kicked off, all three teams were ranked in the world’s top six and eventually hosts England were eliminated at the pool stage in their own tournament. Based on Monday’s rankings with New Zealand still tops and Argentina having slumped to ninth, in theory the Boks could be drawn in a pool with the All Blacks and the Pumas in 2019. "Every Test is important, but yes, this match has significance because we could return to the top four if we win," beleaguered Bok coach Allister Coetzee said. "It’s also one of the objectives we had this season – to stay in the top four – but we were really poor against Italy. We didn’t perform the way we wanted. "Obviously you don’t want to go into the World Cup and have a situation like England did last year in a pool with two other top teams," he said. "But my focus is purely on beating Wales this weekend." Coetzee, who has not been given the unequivocal backing of his bosses at SA Rugby after losing to Italy, must surely have a performance-related clause in his contract. By admitting that staying in the top four was one of the "objectives" this season, Coetzee gave an insight into at least one of the key performance indicators (KPIs) of his contract. On Saturday, following the humiliation in Florence, SA Rugby president Mark Alexander said: "We have a minimum target of winning three out of four Test matches each season [75%] — which is better than the historical record — but we have not come close this season." The winning ratio for 2016 currently stands at 36% and even a win over Wales would only take the Boks to 41.6%, which would still be woefully short of the target Alexander has admitted to. Certain allowances would have been made for 2016 being a transitional year with a new coach following the World Cup, but it is unlikely they would have had to accept less than 60% as a minimum standard. Whether victory over Wales will save Coetzee’s job will only become apparent in the coming weeks, but it might save the Springboks from a huge problem at the next World Cup. The small chance Coetzee had of strengthening the side to face Wales took a blow with the news that lock Eben Etzebeth will miss the match. The giant second rower suffered concussion in the Test against England at Twickenham 10 days ago and has not made a rapid enough improvement to be considered for Saturday’s match in Cardiff.