Two weeks after Donald Trump’s election as US president, the JSE all share is holding up quite well after initially suffering significant losses on the surprise result. But the rand has yet to get back to its firmer levels. After initially weakening on the unexpected Trump victory, the rand and JSE have been clawing back lost ground, but market volatility is likely to remain the norm. The JSE and the rand were sharply weaker in the aftermath of Trump’s victory on November 8, in line with other emerging markets. But now financial markets across the emerging world had stabilised following the initial sell-off, Capital Economics economist Neil Shearing said. "This partly reflects a more conciliatory tone from the president-elect, which has helped to calm fears that some of the more incendiary campaign rhetoric on trade would become a policy reality," he said. The JSE all share closed at 50,700.70 on November 8, with the market predicting a comfortable victory by Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton. The shock result saw the all share tumble to 49,430.20 in the following days, but since then the index has recovered to above the 51,000 level again. The all share closed 1.03% higher at 51,117.70 on Tuesday. Emerging markets have been hard hit with the MSCI emerging markets equities index losing 6% since Trump’s election. Most emerging market indices were down over the past month. Hardest hit were equities in South America, followed by emerging Asia. The all share is up 1.04% so far in November. On the currency front, the picture is less rosy. The rand firmed to R13.1831/$ on November 8, but weakened to R14.4732/$ on November 18. It has been recovering since then, but has been unable to crack the R14/$ level. The rand was at R14.1488/$ in late trade on Tuesday. Even though the rand weakened on Trump’s election, it is still faring much better than other emerging market currencies, 10 of which have lost more percentage wise since then. Egypt’s pound has collapsed 45% against the dollar with all emerging market currencies weakening in November. Emerging market bond yields weakened on average 30 basis points since November 8. The R186 yield was then at 8.64% before weakening to 9.16% on November 14. On Tuesday it was bid at 8.96%. The road ahead for emerging markets could be bumpy. The stronger dollar was not ideal for markets in general, said Stanlib retail investment director Paul Hansen. "It hurts the exports and profits of big US companies." A firmer greenback is also bad for many emerging markets, as it usually trades inversely to commodity prices. Much will depend on the scope of Trump’s fiscal stimulus and lower tax plans and the extent to which it would support GDP growth in the US, with some analysts seeing a similarity to 1980’s "Reaganomics". But that would be a wrong analogy to make, said Old Mutual Multi Managers analyst Dave Mohr. "The conditions are very different now."