“The Tshwane CBD area is now dysfunctional‚” the city’s metro police declared on Wednesday, as EFF members defied approved march routes. “Different EFF groups are marching in different streets in all directions‚” spokesman Supt Isaac Mahamba said. “People‚ especially motorists‚ should avoid the CBD. Sunnyside and Arcadia may also be affected by the marchers‚ as there are two groups heading that direction.” Mahamba said currently there was no violence but the situation is being monitored. Earlier‚ Malema said his EFF members were not going anywhere until President Jacob Zuma is out of office. Clad in a red golf shirt and navy blue tracksuit‚ Malema told supporters in Pretoria’s Church Square: “Fellow fighters‚ we are here to demand the resignation of Jacob Zuma‚ therefore you are not at the wrong place. “We are going to be here until we get a proper signal. If Zuma doesn’t hear us today‚ we are not going anywhere.” The EFF appeared to have prepared for a wait‚ and a heap of loaves of bread‚ tinned jam and tanks of juice could be seen in a tent erected at Church Square to feed the masses of people who brought the city centre to a standstill. An EFF member was heard saying on the phone that they were complying with Malema’s directive to occupy the whole of the city. Earlier, Malema said the party would file an application to compel Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane to release immediately her predecessor’s report on state capture. Malema told hundreds of EFF supporters gathered in Church Square in Tshwane on Wednesday: “As we are speaking now, I just got a call that Zuma is withdrawing the interdict against the public protector.” In a dramatic U-turn on Wednesday, Zuma withdrew his application to interdict the release of former public protector Thuli Madonsela’s report. “All of us here must be proud that we are making history,” said Malema. He distanced the EFF from other marches held by the DA and the Save SA campaign, also in Tshwane. “We are not part of that mess, when we are done with Zuma we are going after the white CEOs They must not think we are friends,” he said. The Save SA campaign is supported by the CEOs of many of SA’s biggest companies, and more than 30 of them were at the campaign’s People’s Assembly at St Albans Cathedral on Wednesday morning. “You guys like listening to this useless DA, which does not have a strategy,” Malema said. He said the DA should stay on its side of town as the EFF wanted nothing to do with it. After his party’s application he wanted the report to be made available on the public protector’s website with immediate effect. “Whether she likes it or not, she is going to release that report that tells us that the Guptas are taking SA for themselves,” the EFF leader said. Before he left for the Pretoria Magistrate’s Court he told members of the EFF to march and take over the CBD until he was done in court later in the afternoon. Chaotic scenes Chaotic scenes were reported in Tshwane earlier on Wednesday morning. People were reportedly dragged out of their cars and public transport and forced to join the march. Scattered groupings in EFF regalia were seen running down Lillian Ngoyi Street‚ banging road signs with sticks and emptying rubbish bins. None of the shops or businesses had opened following Malema’s statement on Tuesday that he could not guarantee the safety of these establishments. EFF secretary-general Godrich Gardee said President Jacob Zuma would resign after the public protector released the state capture report. Gardee told supporters gathered in Church Square: “Today Zuma will resign.” He said Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane would release the state capture report on Wednesday and the information it contained would lead to Zuma’s resignation. This was before news broke that Zuma had withdrawn his bid to interdict the release of the report. With Penelope Mashego, TMG Digital and The Times