The Treasury has the unenviable task of figuring out how to wring more taxes from a slower-growing economy. SA faces a low-growth trap, with growth of 1.3% forecast for 2017, and the outlook for this year revised down to 0.5%. Despite these meagre growth prospects, the government wants to increase tax revenue by R28bn in the next fiscal year, which starts in March 2017. The tax revenue shortfall for the current fiscal period is R23bn. Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan made the announcement in his medium-term budget policy statement, calling for an additional R13bn in 2017-18 on top of the initial R15bn announced in February. Kyle Mandy, tax partner at PwC, says the proposed increase in tax revenue will raise SA’s ratio of tax to gross domestic product (GDP) to 28.2%. If local government taxes are added, it would take the ratio to nearly 29.5% of GDP from 25.8% in 2015. a country’s tax-GDP ratio decreases when economic growth slows. The vexing question is, where will the additional taxes come from? Mandy says this is likely to be the Treasury’s most difficult challenge in the 2017 budget. The Treasury needed far smaller tax increases over the past two years — between R13bn and R18bn. In addition, it had the luxury to spread the burden over a number of tax instruments, notably personal income tax, the general fuel levy and capital gains tax, without having to touch the value-added tax (VAT) rate. "That is going to prove far more difficult to do in 2017…. It seems inevitable that a one percentage point increase in the VAT rate is unavoidable," Mandy says. "Such an increase will raise in the region of R20bn and could possibly be phased in over the next two years in 0.5-point increments, which would minimise the inflationary effect." To make an increase in the VAT rate "politically palatable", it would have to be accompanied by increased social grant spending to offset the effect on the poorest. Lesley Bosman, associate director at KPMG, says she does not expect an increase in the VAT rate, but she does expect an incremental increase in a number of different taxes to raise the additional funds. "I would expect an increase in personal income tax rates for most tax brackets in next year’s budget, but I am not convinced the Treasury will look to a super tax or a wealth tax next year," she says. Bosman says the proposed sugar tax and the oft-delayed carbon tax are still on the cards. The proceeds of the carbon tax are meant to be "recycled" into green incentives and electricity subsidies for the poorest households (to offset any increased cost associated with the tax). Mandy says the proposed sugar tax is likely to contribute about R6bn to tax revenue. It is possible the estate duty and donations tax rates could also be increased, to 25% from the current 20%. "The additional taxes raised from estate duty and donations tax will not be significant, but could be strongly symbolic as taxes on wealth, and could provide some of the political leverage for a VAT increase," says Mandy. If the Treasury decides not to provide fiscal drag relief (to prevent individual taxpayers from falling into a higher tax bracket with a wage increase) it could raise about R15bn in additional taxes. However, Mandy says it is highly unlikely the Treasury will not provide any fiscal drag relief, particularly for lower-income earners. An increase of one percentage point in personal income tax rates across the board — except for the lowest tax bracket — would raise additional revenue of about R9bn. Introducing a new super tax bracket of 45% for taxpayers who earn more than R1m a year would at most raise an additional R5bn. "All in all, it seems unlikely that more than R14bn additional tax revenue could be raised through personal income tax. Even with a sugar tax, this would leave the Treasury about R8bn short of the R28bn it is looking for next year," says Mandy. An increase of one percentage point in corporate income tax could raise about R7bn. However, this would have the greatest negative impact on the economy, is the least stable source of revenue and would be a move in the opposite direction from global trends, Mandy warns. Keith Engel, CEO of the South African Institute of Tax Professionals, says it is probable the Treasury will only partially adjust for fiscal drag, especially for taxpayers in higher tax brackets. He also expects an increase in the top marginal rate for individual taxpayers above the current 41%. However, these measures may amount to only between R10bn and R15bn extra. Another variation is to eliminate tax offsets for individuals, such as medical credits and tougher rules for the car allowances. Engel believes there is a general "informal" consensus that the VAT rate should be increased to make up for the expected shortfall. He says an increase has been anticipated, but will be linked to fund the still elusive National Health Insurance (NHI). "Easy sources for additional tax revenue have long dried up."