Melbourne — You can learn a lot by studying the fixture list, and even more by reading between its lines. SA, for instance, were due to play against a Victoria XI at the Melbourne Cricket Ground (MCG) on Saturday and Sunday. The match is the visitors’ last dress rehearsal for the third Test in Adelaide on Thursday — SA’s first foray into the oldest format’s brave new world of day/night play using the pink ball. The game is to be played under the same conditions. But it has been reduced to a 50 overs-a-side affair on Saturday only, with SA batting first to gain experience of being at the crease during the difficult twilight period when the ball seems to seam and swing more than its red counterpart. Perhaps the MCG match has been truncated because SA clinched the series by an innings and 80 runs in Hobart. That could also explain why the South Africans do not seem to be about to reinvent themselves for the sake of lights, camera, action in Adelaide. "I don’t think we are going to change much," selection convenor Linda Zondi said. "It’s important that we maintain the stability of the squad and the structure of the starting XI." However, there might be merit in sending a couple of middle order men to open the innings if SA bat first. The trend in pink-ball first-class games in Australia has been for the team batting first to make hay (and runs), while the sun shines and declare after two sessions to take advantage of the better bowling conditions under lights. A crash of wickets could be avoided if the regular openers, armed with their tighter techniques, are kept in reserve. Not that Zondi ruled out different personnel for the third Test. "That’s why we’ve got a squad of 16, that’s part of the plan," he said. "Within the squad, we’ve got enough variation." Maybe that is why uncapped left-arm wrist spinner Tabraiz Shamsi was bowling with a dozen or so pink balls in the indoor nets at Bellerive Oval. With the relatively rapid deterioration of the ball an issue, would not it make sense to preserve it by deploying Shamsi and left-arm orthodox spinner Keshav Maharaj in Adelaide? And would not it be a good idea to establish answers to questions like those by staging first-class franchise matches under pink-ball conditions in SA? "Absolutely," Zondi said. "Sooner or later, it will be an idea to make sure all those guys we pick from are using the pink ball." The South Africans have the luxury of mulling these issues at length. Not so the Aussies, who changed the round of Sheffield Shield matches that started on Thursday to day/night, pink-ball games and sent their struggling Test batsmen back to their state teams to sort themselves out. Three of those who played in the second Test batted on Thursday — Joe Burns was out for four, Usman Khawaja made 106 and Adam Voges scored 12. Two who might be in the mix when the squad for the third Test are announced on Sunday by Trevor Hohns, who is interim selection chair in the wake of Rod Marsh’s resignation, put up their hands: Peter Handscomb scored an undefeated 110 and Matt Renshaw made 108.