Criminalising false disclosures of corruption will deter whistleblowers from coming forward, opposition parliamentarians said on Tuesday. The Protected Disclosures Amendment Bill is aimed at protecting individuals who are aware of corrupt activities when they approach the authorities with information. Whistleblowers have faced intimidation, dismissal and threats to their lives due to a lack of protection. "False whistleblowers can be subjected to disciplinary processes and could be sanctioned or fined," DA MP Werner Horn told the National Assembly. "We will be the first country to criminalise false disclosures that have been made innocently and unknowingly," Horn said. The EFF’s Sam Matiase called the bill a "lost opportunity" for the ANC to regain the trust of South Africans who have witnessed corruption occur with impunity. He called the criminalising of false disclosures "a secrecy bill by other means". National Freedom Party MP Sibusiso Mncwabe said false disclosures should not be protected. Freedom Front Plus MP Corne Mulder warned that the treatment of former public protector Thuli Madonsela showed how government officials would react to exposés of mismanagement and corruption. African Christian Democratic Party MP Steve Swart said civil society organisations also warned that protecting whistleblowers, particularly those working in the institutions where the corruption they report is taking place, should be prioritised before protecting company reputations. The party shares "concerns about the chilling effect of the newly instituted crimes will have on disclosures. We need to protect workers," Swart said. ANC members passed the bill. ANC MP and chairman of the justice and correctional services portfolio committee Mathole Motshekga said the bill enjoyed overwhelming support because of its provisions aimed at protecting whistleblowers as well as businesses’ reputations. "We need to strike the balance between rights and responsibilities of whistleblowers in the draft amendment. With this in mind it is important to impose penalties for any false disclosures," said Motshekga.