Tshwane mayor Solly Msimanga on Thursday said the city will approach the courts in a bid to put a stop to daily payments of about R2.3m in the controversial electricity smart meter contract with Peu Capital Partners. Msimanga made the announcement during a media briefing at the Tshwane council, where he also disclosed that the city stood to lose R2.6bn from the contract, signed by the previous administration. Tshwane has already paid Peu R1.65bn since the contract started in 2013. This comes after business lobby group AfriBusiness, applied to the High Court in Pretoria to have the contract set aside on the basis that it was irregular. In July the group succeeded in getting the court to stop the city from paying the R950m, which is now in an escrow account until the second part of its application — to have the contract set aside — was dealt with. "However this court action also presents challenges to the city, which we will have to continue to pay commission of 9.5c of every rand of electricity sold daily," said Msimanga, elaborating on the court challenge to have the entire contract nullified. Earlier in November, the city disclosed that the money it paid to Peu amounted to R2.3m per day, funds the mayor said could go a long way in meeting Tshwane’s service delivery requirements. Msimanga said his administration had hired a team of new lawyers extricate the city from the deal. Before the end of November, the city is due to file a concession affidavit with the court saying that the contract was unaffordable, irregular, irrational and should, as a result, be declared unlawful and set aside. The previous administration had filed papers opposing AfriBusiness’s application. "Let me be clear: this administration will not be complicit in the swindling of the city and its residents by remaining a defendant in this matter that we have long held was fraught with narrow political interests, at the expense of the city’s pre-eminent mandate to provide the services that so many people and businesses in our community need for everyday life," Msimanga said. On Thursday police details milled around council just before the city’s ordinary council meeting, which was scheduled to start after the media briefing. Tshwane council chambers have been the centre of violence and disruption since the DA-led administration took over council affairs, after the local government elections in August. A municipal staff member who did not want to be named said there were more police officers than usual council meetings owing to fears of violence.