The national minimum wage of R20 an hour proposed by Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa’s National Minimum Wage Advisory Panel marks a turning point in an almost century-long debate. In some leftist quarters, the R20 is a sell-out amount; among economist colleagues and business pundits, it is a job-destroying fantasy. For the past 18 months, I have researched this issue as the co-ordinator of Wits University’s National Minimum Wage Research Initiative and contributed as an external party to the process. While workers need and deserve more, it is a notable step forward. A national minimum wage was first mooted in SA in 1935, appeared in the 1955 Freedom Charter, and was a demand at Cosatu’s launch in 1985. In the democratic transition, it fell off the table in favour of amendments to the existing sectoral wage system. For 22 years, certain stalwarts in the labour movement kept the idea alive but it was not until it appeared in the 2014 ANC election manifesto that it edged closer to reality. A national minimum wage is preferred to a sectoral system by minimum wage experts the world over, because it is easier to enforce, sets an equal wage for all and does not discriminate against sectors with a high number of vulnerable workers such as women. It can also be set while keeping in mind policy objectives, such as reducing poverty and inequality, and while assessing the macroeconomic effect, rather than just narrow sectoral considerations. The labour movement, civil society and Ramaphosa — against the opposition of business, some opposition political parties and sections of the government — appear to have sealed the deal. SA will have a national minimum wage and, given the reaction to the proposed R3,500, it appears impossible that it will be lower than that. While R20 an hour is about R3,500 for a 40-hour working week, minimum wages in SA are almost always calculated on a 45-hour week, which brings the amount to R3,900. This is a significant achievement and detractors from the left would do well to remember that others have failed to achieve this, or let the issue slip off the agenda. Still, a national minimum wage is supposed to ensure that all workers are able to meet their basic needs and R3,500, or even R3,900, will not cover that. In February 2016, the "working poor line" calculated by the research initiative was about R4,300. This is the wage income average workers, with an average number of dependents and possibly other income sources such as grants, need to bring themselves and their dependents out of poverty. By July 2017, this amount will hover at about R4,700. In February 2016, a family of four needed about R5,500 not to live in poverty, close to R6,000 in July 2017 terms. Poverty lines measure bare subsistence. Some will argue that even these levels are too low, and suggest amounts up to R12,500. Minimum wages are not about a fair distribution of income or everyone living a comfortable life, let alone the sort of lives the privileged enjoy. To achieve that aim, social struggle and wholesale change is needed. They are about ensuring a basic minimum level of income. In this way they are modest, reformist policies, but ones that in no way preclude more radical demands for a reorientation of the economy. Despite their modest objective, even a level of R3,500 would be a boon to millions of workers. The monthly income for slightly more than a third of formal-sector, full-time workers falls below this level, and 37% of formal-sector workers earn less than R20 per hour. It is unprecedented for the national minimum wage to cover so large a section of the workforce; they cover 10%-20% of the workforce in many Latin American countries. SA’s crises of inequality and working poverty demand bold steps. Despite this, it is difficult to argue with workers who say the amount is insufficient to cover their needs. They are a better judge of that than academics or policy makers. The responsibility of policy makers, and those who advise them, is to, within a given context, balance competing objectives. The R20 an hour is an attempt to do this. The panel proposed it on a solid evidence base. They note that national minimum wages have consistently been shown to reduce poverty and inequality. For example, in the 2000s, Argentina and Uruguay increased their national minimum wage levels by 200% and Brazil by 130%; inequality fell by up to a third. In the UK, the national minimum wage is credited with contributing to half of the fall in inequality. In the US and Mexico, the fall in the real value of the minimum wage contributed to rising inequality. Similar results highlight its ability to reduce working poverty. The evidence also overwhelmingly indicates that moderate increases in minimum wages do not increase unemployment, despite how often the opposite is asserted. It is confirmed in seven recent meta-analyses (studies that combine hundreds of other studies to produce aggregate findings) that show a 10% increase in minimum wages has, on average, a 0%-0.7% negative impact on employment. This includes studies on developing countries and emerging markets and is similar to the South African evidence in which employment did not fall in five of the six sectors studied, agriculture being the exception. All of this is confirmed in the most appropriate statistical modelling undertaken in SA. It shows reductions in poverty and inequality with increases in incomes, spending and output, which lead to modest gains in GDP growth. Workers earning and spending more can be beneficial and high levels of inequality and poverty depress growth. The same modelling shows a slight fall in employment (about 0.3% on average) over a 10-year period. It is likely that any reasonable national minimum wage will temporarily dampen job growth, particularly in the first few years, as the modelling shows. Poor households are still better off as wage income rises and is shared. If wages remain constant due to fewer hours worked, workers’ quality of life will still improve. Other policies must boost employment. There is a limit above which the negative effects outweigh the positive. The amount of R3,500 falls comfortably within the "feasibility range", and moderately higher levels would also be sustainable. In other modelling, such as that by the Treasury, there is no "feasibility range" as the model always predicts job losses because of the manner in which it is constructed. The current South African context precludes a national minimum wage of R12,500, and levels edging closer to R6,000 would be touch-and-go. There is certainly room to go above R3,500 but if that amount is the starting point, clear medium-term targets, annual increases and stringent enforcement should accompany this. Analysing the current context also means accounting for the position of various actors. It is widely reported that business doggedly maintained a proposal of between R1,800 and R2,200. So R3,500, while below the amount demanded by Cosatu and the EFF, is a meaningful victory. Stressing the constraints of the current context does not mean peace has to be made with wage levels below workers’ needs. Fighting for a more equal society where everyone can enjoy a decent standard of living is a necessity. To achieve this the current economic context needs to be changed. This requires an overhaul of macroeconomic, industrial, tax, and education policy, to name but a few key areas, and corruption must be ended. Inequality and poverty can be directly tackled through, for example, mandatory ratios between top and bottom pay and comprehensive social security, which appears to be on the table in a serious way for the first time. The national minimum wage is not a silver bullet but it can play a positive role in a restructuring of SA’s economy. The authorities have to ensure it rises above the R3,500 level, initially or over a period of years. But even beginning at this level could improve the lives of millions of the poorest workers. • Isaacs is the co-ordinator of the National Minimum Wage Research Initiative at Corporate Strategy and Industrial Development, in the School of Economics and Business Sciences at the University of the Witwatersrand. 