What is going on with Renault? A few years ago we were predicting that the brand might leave SA (we have been saying that about Peugeot Citroen too but they are also still here &mdash; although only just).Instead the French marque has performed a turnaround and is now not only doing well in SA, but in the first half of 2016 outperformed every market in Europe with a sales increase of 16%. That figure more than doubles to 38% in Africa, the Middle East and India, driven by models such as the Kwid and Kadjar.Nissan executives must be concerned about their alliance partner. The vehicle that started the crossover/small SUV revolution, the Qashqai, only outsold the Kadjar (which shares the same platform) by 13 units last month.Volkswagen dominates the hatch market with its Golf. The Ford Focus is also a popular choice. The Renault Megane has always been popular, but then the latest generation came along and, for now, the segment mainstays look rather inferior.A big part of this is the styling. Laurens van den Acker, Renault&rsquo;s design chief, has created a vehicle that just makes you go "wow". I could have just sat and looked at it for hours (the GT is even better looking). Yes, styling is subjective, but if you think it is not a good looking car you should book an appointment at your optician. Just look at those lines, at those curves. I can&rsquo;t find a single design flaw. Van den Acker is a genius.Then there are those tail lights, which curve across the rear. Drive behind one at night and it is not only recognisable but if you are in anything else, you will just feel jealous.I am equally impressed with the interior. Here, though, things are not quite flawless. The plastic surrounding the infotainment screen looks like something that was bought last minute from a China mall and the handbrake occasionally gets in the way of the gearstick, but that&rsquo;s about it.The GT-Line model we had on test is equipped with stylish and comfortable sports seats. There is ambient lighting in the dash and doors. Switch driving modes and the colour changes. It could be kitsch), but it&rsquo;s not.You get a digital dash with a multitude of displays and themes, which is standard. Also standard is the infotainment system. Here you get a great touchscreen setup with the ability to swipe through screens. It includes navigation, multimedia streaming, Eco driving information and tips and even an air quality monitor. Some of the touch buttons on the side for the volume are a little temperamental but you also get all these controls on the steering wheel too and you can use your voice.That infotainment screen also provides you with access to things such as self-parking so you can allow the Megane to reverse into a parallel or alley dock parking bay. It can even slot itself into a diagonal bay, which we have not seen before.It ticks the styling box and has loads of standard kit so surely I can fault it on its drive? Well no, not really. The GT-Line lacks the precision of the four-wheel steering GT model, but it is the product of some engineers who like driving. The steering is good, the comfort level decent and the handling is great.It also has an impressive engine. We raved about the 1.2 powerplant when it first debuted in the last generation Megane. There is a bit of lag while the turbos wake up but then that 97kW and 205Nm feels like a lot more.Our test model had a six-speed manual box, which probably makes the whole package far more responsive than an auto version. You have to drop down a cog or two on occasion when overtaking uphill but generally the combination is just superb.There is a Sport mode which gives the exhaust a little more growl as well as sharpening up the throttle response.There will be those horrified that anyone would consider a Renault, even though Renault SA is doing a great job of improving its parts availability and cracking the whip with its dealer service.There is not much else to say really, except "J aime ca." You can look that one up.