Most people feel resentful when they are unjustifiably taken for fools. This is why all those South Africans who witnessed the Shaun Abrahams show in Parliament’s justice committee last week will feel resentment towards the national director of public prosecutions. For those who lost money on the financial markets as a result of Abrahams’s decision to lay charges of theft and fraud against Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan, the feelings will be a little stronger than resentment. Abrahams astonished MPs — and the public — when he disowned the decision to prosecute Gordhan, saying that the decision was made by two other members of the National Prosecuting Authority staff. He insisted that he merely announced the decision after it had already been made. Few who saw the broadcast of the announcement on October 11 will forget the grandstanding of Abrahams, who insisted that a crime had been committed and it had to be prosecuted. He pontificated that everyone was equal before the law regardless of their social standing. When asked why he had not reviewed the decision to prosecute Gordhan before making the announcement, Abrahams claimed unconvincingly he had full confidence in his prosecutors. And this at a time when he had demonstrated the exact opposite by withdrawing the charges. He said he chose to review the decision to prosecute Gordhan and two others only after receiving representations from civil society organisations Freedom Under Law and the Helen Suzman Foundation. When asked why he had not done so before making his Hollywood-style announcement, he had no real answer. Conveniently, the two officials who had taken the decision to prosecute Gordhan were not present at the meeting despite being on the list of those scheduled to attend. Abrahams said two other officials were sufficient support for him. Was he afraid that they would gainsay the contention that no review of their decision took place before the announcement or perhaps afraid that they would confirm that the order to prosecute came from elsewhere? From ANC headquarters at Luthuli House, perhaps? After all, it is common cause that Abrahams met President Jacob Zuma and ministers of the security cluster at Luthuli House the day before he made his announcement. He insisted that the meeting was convened to discuss the violent protests sweeping through our universities. Just why this meeting took place at the headquarters of the governing party and not at the Union Buildings or the Department of Higher Education is unclear. What is clear is that it was inappropriate to say the least. ANC MPs on the justice committee seem to have forgotten the hiding Parliament took over the Nkandla matter for failing to hold the executive accountable, because they said there was nothing wrong with the head of prosecutions attending a meeting at the headquarters of a major political party. This, despite Abrahams having sworn to prosecute without fear, favour or prejudice. But perhaps the worst aspect of the justice committee meeting was that Abrahams insisted that he owed no one an apology for putting them through a miserable few weeks for nothing. Not Gordhan, nor the other two who were accused, Ivan Pillay and Oupa Magashula. In reality, he owes all three an apology, but more importantly, he owes the nation an apology. He has weakened the rule of law by making the National Prosecuting Authority a laughing stock and has allowed the institution to appear beholden not only to the ruling party, but to a faction of the governing party.