It has become an all too often told story: Bafana Bafana have an important match to play‚ and in the build-up instead of focusing on the game coach Shakes Mashaba rambles incoherently about lack of media support. Matches do not come more crucial than Saturday’s 2018 World Cup qualifier against Senegal at Peter Mokaba Stadium in Polokwane. At a conference in Polokwane on Wednesday, Mashaba pleaded for media support‚ which would have been all very well had it not been a plea tinged by veiled and paranoid accusations of perceived treachery by the media. Mashaba went as far as to suggest his technical team had not received credit for qualifying for the 2015 Africa Cup of Nations (Afcon). They did – a chorus roared from all corners. "I know everyone has been talking and saying: ‘We are playing against a very strong Senegal‚ and we have never beaten Senegal’‚" Mashaba said. "Senegal has never beaten us as well. Let’s stop playing second fiddle to other people. Let us be proud of ourselves." For the record Bafana have met Senegal seven times‚ with two wins to each side and three draws. Again‚ Mashaba‚ as he had in his disastrous opening draw and defeat of the failed 2017 Afcon qualifying campaign‚ played down the need to research the opposition. "And one other thing — there’s this kind of a question that comes all the time. What do you know about the opposition? "To me it’s a bit of a dicey question. There’s no way we can sit and say: ‘We played so and so‚ don’t worry about them‚ we’ll see them at 3 o’clock on the day of the match’. "We have been watching Senegal. They have played three games recently and won all of them. So we know what to expect from them. We are happy with the team we have put up." It is a tired‚ old‚ scratched record Mashaba is still playing‚ despite advice from all corners‚ including from his supposed enemies in the media and own employers at the South African Football Association‚ to stop. If Bafana lose, it seems likely this scratched old relic of an LP will be thrown into the bin. Defensive midfielder Dean Furman and leftback Tebogo Langerman have been withdrawn from the squad with injuries. Their replacements are yet to be named. TMG Digital