Brandy has a problem in SA. It isn&rsquo;t the taste, it&rsquo;s the image. A former brand ambassador says the spirit is saddled with a "sink a bottle, then start a fight" association with heavy drinkers prone to domestic violence.Not surprisingly, some brandy producers are eyeing the meteoric revival of gin with enormous envy. Gin, known as "mother&rsquo;s ruin" a few decades ago, is now a glamorous tipple with dedicated gin palaces and websites extolling the hundreds of artisanal versions.Brandy expert Winifred Bowman isn&rsquo;t convinced about the gin palaces. "They&rsquo;re in Cape Town and Capetonians are so fickle they&rsquo;ll be gone in a few months," she says dismissively.Yet the elevation from down market to upper crust achieved by gin and craft beer is eluding brandy.The problem isn&rsquo;t the quality, because South African brandies are undoubtedly the best in the world, winning more than 40 medals globally in 2016.At the International Wine and Spirits Competition, Van Ryn&rsquo;s 12-year-old Distiller&rsquo;s Reserve won the Worldwide Brandy Trophy for the fifth time. The International Spirits Challenge hailed KWV as the Best Producer and its KWV 15-year-old as the Best Brandy. It was the first time a distiller from outside the Cognac region had ever won that title.Cognac is brandy that talks with a snobby French accent, made in a tiny region of France. But while it wins for location the other regulations governing its production are less strict than those shaping the finest local brandies.SA&rsquo;s "potstill" brandies start with a base wine that&rsquo;s distilled through copper potstills twice then aged in oak for at least three years.Bowman is a Cape Wine Master and a judge for Veritas and the Michelangelo International Wine and Spirit awards. She&rsquo;s leading the charge to promote local brandy as a stylish tipple, not just something to dilute with Coke.Although really, she doesn&rsquo;t care how its drunk. "My favourite is brandy with a bit of mint muddled in it then half ginger ale and half soda," she says.To help boost its profile, Bowman and the South African Brandy Foundation recently staged a food and brandy pairing at 54 on Bath Hotel in Johannesburg. It was the day the US elected Donald Trump as president, and Bowman wasn&rsquo;t impressed. "After what I saw on TV this morning, I&rsquo;m not going to spit, I&rsquo;m just going to drink."The hotel&rsquo;s executive chef, Phil de Villiers, picked up flavours in the brandies to match with the foods. An Oude Molen XO potstill with hints of citrus accompanied trout decorated with ruby grapefruit.The nutty hints in the KWV 15-year-old went well with a platter of chocolate torte surrounded by nibbles of raspberry and hazelnut. The enormous glasses used at the event are temptingly shaped for swirling and cradling, but Bowman chastises us. "Don&rsquo;t swirl it &ndash; you get a nose full of alcohol and that&rsquo;s only good if you have a cold."And don&rsquo;t hug your glass &ndash; that&rsquo;s a very old fashioned notion to warm it, but if you warm it all you do is make all the alcohol escape."She describes one brandy as light, fresh and soft, while I detect whiffs of coconut oil, like I should apply it to my shoulders on the beach. She praises another as rich in spice, chocolate and fruit. My lips are on fire, and not in a good way.The world&rsquo;s most awarded brandy, the KWV 15-year-old, costs about R800 a bottle and impressed more than the R2,200 Richelieu Cognac it was up against. "You can buy three of the KWV for that price, it&rsquo;s such a bargain," Bowman says.But price isn&rsquo;t the problem holding back the sales. Cognacs such as Hennessy fly off the shelves in places like the fictitious Saxonwold Shebeen, Bowman jokes."Affluent blacks are drinking Cognacs rather than South African brandies. We have 80-plus producers of beautiful brandies and we do so well in competitions that it&rsquo;s a shame there&rsquo;s not more of it out there in people&rsquo;s glasses," she says."Advertising is good but you&rsquo;re not going to taste it from the paper. In the end, people will be converted to brandy once they taste it in their mouths."The former brand ambassador &mdash; who didn&rsquo;t want to be named because he wasn&rsquo;t being very ambassadorial &mdash; is dubious. "They&rsquo;re fooling themselves if they want to play with the big boys but don&rsquo;t want to spend the money," he says."When Jameson whisky came into the market here, they pumped in money. And when Bacardi came in, they pumped in money to get the brand in your face."Still, Bowman is plugging away and holds tasting sessions in her home to raise awareness. At one session, a group of sommeliers wondered why they had Cognac on their menus when SA&rsquo;s brandies proved better and far cheaper.Some are converts. Renowned chef Luke Dale Roberts features South African brandies on his set menu at The Test Kitchen in Cape Town, while Reuben&rsquo;s has a South African brandy-tasting trolley and its Paternoster branch has a brandy bar."I had one American ambassador who keeled over and said this would do so well in America, why isn&rsquo;t it sold there? It&rsquo;s South African sunshine in a glass," Bowman adds.I assume she&rsquo;s talking metaphorically about the American keeling over, but they do pack a heck of a punch.Brandy Bullets:The first domestic brandy was distilled in 1672 by an assistant chef on the Dutch ship De Pijl in Cape Town.It takes 5l of wine to make 1l of brandy.The base wine must be high quality, not the dregs nobody wants to drink.Most domestic brandies are made from Colombar and Chenin Blanc, but some producers are experimenting with Chardonnay and Cinsault.The base wine is distilled twice in large copper stills, first reaching an alcohol level of 30% then 70%.An "angels&rsquo; share" of alcohol evaporates during the long barreling process. Cognac producers lose 20-million bottles a year, or close to 4% of their overall production.For the past 15 years, a South African brandy has been named as the world&rsquo;s top brandy at either or both the IWSC and the International Spirits Challenge.