Trainer Geoff Woodruff saddled the first and second in 2015’s Sansui Summer Cup and he has secured the services of top jockeys, Gavin Lerena and Anthony Delpech, in an attempt to repeat the feat on November 26. Lerena will once again partner the 2015 winner, Master Sabina, while Delpech, who does not ride many horses for Woodruff, has been booked for Master Switch. Woodruff took Master Switch out of Sunday’s grade2 Victory Moon Stakes in which Bezanova came back to his best form to the delight of trainer Alec Laird and owner Chris Gerber. Other confirmed jockey bookings for the Cup are Callan Murray for St Tropez while Craig Zackey and Grant van Niekerk will partner the Duncan Howells duo of Saratoga Dancer and Ten Gun Salute. Apprentice Lyle Hewitson, who won a race in Abu Dhabi at the weekend, will ride Romany Prince for veteran trainer Ormond Ferraris. Delpech faces a busy week as he will be at the Vaal on Tuesday and heads to Port Elizabeth on Friday and Turffontein on Sunday to compete in the Air Mauritius International Jockeys Challenge. The visitors will be captained by world-renowned jockey Frankie Dettori. Probably the main reason for Delpech’s trip to the Vaal on Tuesday is to partner Mike de Kock’s Aussie-bred newcomer, Alaadel. The three-year-old is a son of Sebring and will not have to be anything special to win at the first time of asking. The chief threat to Alaadel is likely to be Tilbury Fort although Geoff Woodruff’s runner, August Duke, could also improve on what he has achieved to date. Another De Kock Australian import, Talbec, gives Delpech the chance of a double when he runs in the sixth race, but this is a tough contest in which all of Hermoso Mundo, Royal Honour and Consequentially can be given chances. Laird will be on a high following his win with Bezanova on Sunday and he will be looking to Piere Strydom to bring Hermoso Mundo home and keep the stable on the boil. Trainer Steve Moffatt must be tearing his hair out that his speedy filly Rouge Allure is still a maiden and he has called up in-form Craig Zackey to partner the three-year-old in the fourth race. If his runner has to settle for second place once again, it is Sean Tarry’s runner, End Game, who inflicts the defeat. Tarry could capture the final leg of the jackpot with another filly, Tamalang. She looks well above average and is selected to score from Joe Soma’s, Wind Chill, and Fish River Canyon. The Woodruff yard will be looking to Aussie-bred, Super Stratum, to maintain his 100% record when he lines up against some useful rivals in the final event on the card. The three-year-old impressed when posting a three-lengths win at Turffontein in August. The dangers to Super Stratum include Aqua Blue, Navarro and Scotland who has been in sparkling form in recent weeks and is bidding for his fourth win in a row.