The national housing market has remained resilient in a sluggish economy over the past five years, but now estate agents are concerned that economic head-winds are set to scupper its momentum. "After registering an average house price inflation of 5.5% last year, the Pam Golding Residential Property Index appears to be slowing. After reaching a high of 5.7% in March this year, the index has eased slightly to 5.4% in September, bringing the average house price inflation thus far this year to 5.6%," the CEO of Pam Golding Properties, Andrew Golding, said. While the index averaged 5.6%, the consumer inflation rate averaged 6.2% during the same period. This would suggest that, after adjusting for inflation, real South African house prices have fallen by an average of 0.6% compared to the same period last year, according to Dr Golding. Herschel Jawitz, the CEO of Jawitz Properties, agrees the residential market is coming under pressure. "It has experienced a gradual slowdown in 2016 as a result of a combination of social, political and economic factors that have left business and consumer confidence at levels lower than the 2008-09 global financial crisis. These factors have led to buyers being far more cautious with no sense of urgency as the market has shifted from a sellers’ to a buyers’ market," Jawitz said. "Property price growth in almost all parts of the country has slowed down and, for the most part, property price growth in nominal terms will barely keep pace with inflation. Even in Johannesburg, which is the financial hub of the country, property prices in real terms may end up declining by year end," he said. Samuel Seeff, the chairman of Seeff Properties, said SA had probably come to the end of a three-year cycle of positive growth for the housing market with the 2016 year showing a notable slowdown compared to 2015 and the "2013-14 mini-boom peak phase". "So, while Seeff’s turnover is up year on year by about 4%, largely on the back of organic growth, the company expanding with more agents and into more markets, the market as whole has seen slower sales volumes." But certain geographic areas have managed to perform during 2016. House price inflation in the Western Cape has risen 10.35%, according to research by Lightstone. Adjusting for inflation, this translated into an increase in house prices of 4.2% during the first nine months of the year. Durban was in second place with 7.02%, followed by Nelson Mandela Bay with 5.39%. Johannesburg recorded a relatively paltry 4% increase in house price growth. Much of the out-performance of the Western Cape housing market relative to both Gauteng and KwaZulu-Natal began in mid-2013, which has coincided with the start of the movement of buyers to the Cape. Golding said the Cape offered a proven record of service delivery, access to excellent schooling and an attractive lifestyle A significant proportion of buyers relocating to the Western Cape were choosing to settle in the greater Cape Town area. House price inflation in the Cape metro averaged 11.9%. Jawitz said a general scarcity of supply was keeping pricing firm and there was definitely a greater level of consumer confidence in the Western Cape. "Property prices have shown strong growth in Cape Town this year with per square metre prices being achieved in excess of R150,000, which is not seen in any other part of the country," he said. Seeff said good service delivery was a huge draw for house buyers. "With good governance and positive economic growth, Johannesburg and Pretoria house prices can rise notably, Sandton can rival the Atlantic Seaboard for top-end luxury homes, and prices could breach the R30m mark comfortably as it should."