Bold cross-border car theft syndicates are spreading fear and wreaking havoc in northern KwaZulu-Natal towns and villages on the border of Mozambique. They have also prompted South African car-tracking companies to set up shop, or increase their presence, in Mozambique, after a spike in hijackings and vehicle theft, especially of 4x4 vehicles and bakkies. KwaZulu-Natal police say more than 56 vehicles — 18 belonging to government departments and the rest belonging to private individuals — have been hijacked in northern KwaZulu-Natal and spirited over border into Mozambique in less than five months. Kwanele Ncalane, spokesman for the KwaZulu-Natal MEC for transport and community liaison, told Business Day that this past week alone eight syndicate members had been arrested, and four vehicles destined for Mozambique had been recovered. "The MEC visited Umhlabuyalingana district a few weeks ago and spoke to all the stakeholders on how to curb the cross-border syndicates," Ncalane said. "After that a special vehicle unit was established to help curb cross-border crime in Manguzi, Jozini, Umhlabuyalingana and other towns into neighbouring Mozambique. Members of this unit have made a lot of difference. "But the MEC is still looking at introducing concrete slabs called New Jerseys at certain identified spots in the border fence to stem the tide of vehicles that goes across. "We are also looking at reintroducing a special unit patrol the border areas," Ncalane said. Michael Shange, a resident of a village near the Manguzi border town who is the latest victim of the syndicate, said: "They came at night and started throwing stones on top of my house. "When I came out to investigate I was held by a group of five men armed with automatic rifles. They forced into my 4x4 and drove with me towards the border fence. "They then cut the fence with their equipment. They forced me to lie down while they drove away into the night. I had to make my way back," he said. Joseph Tembe, a local headman, said they had been pleading with the government to bring in soldiers to safeguard the border. "If the South African National Defence Force members were deployed here this thing wouldn’t be happening. Government has got to find a solution and find it very fast. "Everybody is scared to drive big vehicles like 4x4s in this area. Even health workers are unable to come to local clinics, fearing being hijacked," he said. Vehicle tracking companies are not taking this cross-border crime lying down. Charles Horak, of C-Track, says most tracking companies have a strong presence in neighbouring countries, especially Mozambique. "Our research has revealed that about 90% of South African vehicles stolen and taken over the border are in Mozambique and about 40% of these are bakkies, especially Toyota Hilux. We have recovered some of these vehicles because we have to send our teams there," he said. This was confirmed by Bassie Hector, of the Vehicle Security Association of SA (VESA), a nonprofit organisation that regulates the manufacturing and installation standards of vehicle security systems. Hector said Mozambican syndicates had been active in border towns in recent months.