When writer, director and producer Bogosi Bolokwe fell in love with one of the cast members of Sarafina in the 1990s, while he was working on Mbongeni Ngema&rsquo;s production as a lighting designer, he was excited. However, the happiness was short-lived because Bolokwe is Tswana-speaking and his girlfriend was Zulu."This thing set both families on a collision course as they were opposed to our relationship on the basis that she was Zulu and I was Tswana," he says."Her family could not accept my family. They also could not accept me as they argued it was unacceptable that their girl could conceivably be married into a different culture, even though we are both South African."It took a lot of intense talks, for especially the family of my girlfriend, to eventually relent and warm to me."That experience inspired him to write a play, Umshado &mdash; Marriage of Heritage, a musical celebration that has toured across the country, performing to packed houses in Johannesburg, Pretoria, Bloemfontein and Mafikeng.It is now back in Pretoria where it is opening on November 18 at the South African State Theatre.Bolokwe is, as usual, wearing multiple hats as writer, director and producer."This personal experience is not an isolated incident. Throughout the world, so many people white, black, Indian, Chinese and whatever culture imaginable experience what confronted me," he says."Instead of embracing the fusion of cultures, societies tend to oppose people marrying or falling in love across cultures, which is sad."In some cases, even when families eventually accept such relationships, the community sadly chooses to resist, and in some cases, they succeed in breaking up relationships based on such often divisive factors such as religion. But the truth is love does not know colour or religion. It transcends such barriers," he says.The musical digs deep into the complexity of cross-cultural relationships, and cleverly weaves through harmonious melodies, energetic dance sequences, spirited drumming, captivating guitar riffs and penetrating dialogue a narrative that says love is bigger than cultural differences.It is a story of a man who leaves his semi-rural home and heads for the big city to look for work. He falls in love with someone from a different culture, an event that divides communities. The musical celebrates cultures, capturing the magic of African people and the raw beauty reinforcing social cohesion and the African Renaissance. It is a celebration that confronts who South Africans are, where we come from and where we are going.It tells the story of a young man s journey from his roots in the kraal of Moruleng in Rustenburg to Mamelodi, Tshwane. The musical opens during the ceremonial preparation for his entrance into manhood and captures this rite of passage as a Tswana boy.On his arrival in Mamelodi, he becomes a bricklayer. For the first time, he makes contact with people of other races, cultures, traditions and languages. He is amazed by the ability of people from different cultures to work productively together. He learns about their music and enjoys a repertoire of performance styles that is carried along by rich traditional melodies.After falling in love and experiencing a Western wedding in a church, he decides he should remain true to his traditions.He arranges abakhongi (emissaries) with his elders to negotiate lobola on his behalf. But the bride s father is adamant that he will not allow his Zulu daughter to wed a Tswana. Eventually, the emissaries and the man s future in-laws reach a compact.The musical is a potpourri of African heritage music and dance that includes Nguni isiZulu, isiXhosa, seTswana and other African folk songs.There are isiBhaca dance rhythms and Sesotho seRashiya concertina music containing the poems of the Basotho. Closely linked to concertina music, this is a complex repertoire of guitar styles that emerged from within the ranks of young migrants and domestics workers called ukuvamba (vamping guitar technique) anchored by Boere musiek guitar techniques.Marabi, kwela and indunduma (sand dune) music are in abundance in this production. The songs are accompanied by different dances such as Thula Ndivile, isishameni and isikhuze, to name a few.Born in Rustenburg in North West, Bolokwe started his career in 1979 as an actor and traditional dancer.He went to dance school in Pretoria to learn modern jazz dance under Andre van der Nest, took acting and technique lessons from the late famed Gibson Kente.Bolokwe worked at Sun City as a lighting designer and dancer for several years, and has worked in various capacities on major productions in SA and abroad including Umoja The spirit of Togetherness, Sing Africa Dance, Sarafina, The Rocky Horror Picture Show and Joyous Celebration.