Singapore — Oil prices rose about 2% on Tuesday to move away from multi-month lows struck the day before, pushed higher by the expectation of falling shale output and renewed optimism that oil cartel Opec will deliver on touted production cuts. US crude futures for December delivery had climbed 90c, or 2.1%, to $44.22 a barrel by 3.40am GMT. They struck their lowest in nearly two months the session before. January Brent futures were up 81c, or 1.9%, at $45.24 a barrel. Prices were buoyed by the expectation that US shale oil production will in December fall to its lowest since April 2014 at 4.5-million barrels a day. "Crude oil prices stabilised after several days of continued falls," Australian bank ANZ said in a note on Tuesday. "Headlines around increasing Opec production remained prevalent, although the focus switched to final diplomatic efforts from nations to agree to a production cut." Saudi Arabia’s energy minister said it was imperative for Opec to reach a consensus on activating a deal made in September to curb production, according to Algeria’s state news agency APS on Sunday. Opec members are due to meet later in November. Also supporting oil markets was news that Harold Hamm, the CE at US independent oil producer Continental Resources, could serve as energy secretary when Donald Trump became US president. Hamm, if nominated, would be the first US energy secretary drawn directly from the industry, a move that would jolt environmental advocates but bolster Trump’s pro-drilling energy platform. US crude prices were also likely to be supported by short-covering, said Philips Futures investment analyst Jonathan Chan. "The current active contract [for US crude[ is expiring. The last trading day is next Monday, so some oil traders are already starting to close out their positions to roll over," said Chan. Elsewhere, Iraq will cut exports of Basra crude from its southern ports to 3.16-million barrels a day in December, compared with 3.24-million barrels a day in November. The allocated December volume will be the lowest in four months. Meanwhile, returning Libyan crude oil production could cap market gains. A tanker carrying the first freshly produced cargo of Libyan crude to be exported since the Ras Lanuf terminal reopened in September left the port on Monday. The reopening of the eastern ports has helped Libya’s national production double to about 600,000 barrels a day. Reuters