Why, shortly after the evening I told you about, I discovered something. When I would leave a blind man on the sidewalk to which I had convoyed him, I used to tip my hat to him. Obviously the hat tipping wasn’t intended for him, since he couldn’t see it. To whom was it addressed? To the public. After playing my part, I would take the bow. Not bad, eh?" These are the words of Jean-Baptiste, the key character in the Albert Camus novel, The Fall, which explores the existential crises of a successful lawyer who comes to see himself as duplicitous and hypocritical. Jean-Baptiste initially resists the realisation that he has lived hypocritically and selfishly. He argues with himself over his prior acts of kindness, but quickly discovers this is an argument he cannot win. He starts to slowly realise that his acts of kindness were in fact tropes and acts meant to soothe his own ego and conscience. It was this tale that came to mind as I watched Pravin Gordhan deliver his medium-term budget speech in Parliament. I found myself waiting for the substance of the speech, which would provide an indication that our government had finally grasped the reality that had been staring it in the face for the longest time. But I was left wanting. Instead, all I could see was Jean-Baptiste doffing his hat to the blind man. Like Jean-Baptiste, the minister was enacting a show that would not only soothe his conscience and add to his own conviction of his good deeds, but would reassure the public that indeed here was a good man. Rousing applause and standing ovations were testament to the desperation of the public to not only have a hero step up to the plate, but also to the public’s willingness to turn a blind eye to the hypocrisy we were about to be treated to. Before you turn away in disgust that anyone should dare question the integrity of the one minister who stands between us and "the promotion of uncontrolled looting and state capture, Zuma-style", as one prominent public interest lawyer suggested to me, allow me to explain why this analogy seems appropriate. The budget itself did not yield any significant indication that SA would be doing anything different. While it is granted that medium-term budget speeches are not really the time or place for bold new initiatives, it was nonetheless not an ordinary medium-term budget speech. It was, in many ways, a theatre in which the political elites were either going to confirm our slide into kleptocracy or present the public with a glimmer of hope. While we should be grateful the slide to uber kleptocracy was publicly denied, the overwhelming outcome of the speech was an affirmation of the continuation of the macroeconomic strategies that have produced the most unequal country in the world. The difference between procedural constraints on kleptocracy and the continuation of the structural biases of the economy towards capital-intensive, top-level growth, or trickle-down economics, should not be lost in our desperation for a hero. For, like Jean-Baptiste, it had no real meaning to the person it was supposed to benefit. Inclusive growth was the minister’s watchword, but even a cursory perusal of its substance reveals merely the doffing of a hat to a blind man, a token. A R10 increase in grants only affirms the ingrown and infuriating paternalism of a government that has failed to come to grips with the true causes of the poverty and inequality that denies South Africans their right to work and that has been driven, in many ways, by the capture of our government by a particular Western paradigm of development. Root cause An example of the government’s failure to open, or rather to decolonise, the economy for the benefit of the majority of South Africans can be found in the mining sector. In a recent address to the International Association of Refugee Law Judges, Chief Justice Mogoeng Mogoeng remarked that "until we get to the root cause of the problem, we will be touching on the leaves and branches for many centuries to come". He then called on his audience to "imagine how different the situation would be in Africa if Africans enjoyed just as much benefit out of the mineral resources in their continent as other countries outside of Africa do". The esteemed judge is not wrong when he says South Africans are denied the right to access work and wealth so easily provided to foreign investors. In Kimberley, between 500 and 1,000 informal miners are facing an attempt by large-scale miners to interdict them from accessing abandoned plots in which the informal miners eke out a living. The irony of the application by Petra Diamonds and Ekapa Minerals to prevent others from benefiting and securing a meagre existence is that they themselves do not have rights over 98% of the land they wish to keep the miners from entering. Here is an operation that has produced billions of rand worth of profit for foreign shareholders in the past 150 years and does not lose a cent in revenue from the actions of the informal miners, but that, through greed and selfish interest, wishes to prevent hundreds of families from putting food on the table. This situation is allowed to exist through the tacit and collaborative efforts of the Department of Mineral Resources. During a mining conference in Kimberley in 2015, the then minister of mineral resources instructed the department to assist the informal miners in securing legal status and access to mining rights and permits. Since then, the informal miners have been trying to get the department to help them, but all that appears to have happened is that it has provided the names of the informal miners to Petra so it could bring a deficient application to have the miners interdicted. How else would Petra have obtained the names of the informal miners if not through the department? The blanket ban on artisanal mining that is enacted in the Mining Petroleum Resources Development Act seems contrary to the UN’s International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, a binding treaty signed by SA in 1994 and ratified in 2015. Among other things, this treaty requires the South African government to recognise the right to work. The AU’s African Charter on Human and People’s Rights similarly recognises the right to work, and the South African Constitution establishes the individual’s right to "choose their trade, occupation or profession freely", subject to reasonable regulation. In the current case, between 500 and 1,000 miners have been mining the "floors", a thin layer of tailings found not on mine dumps, but on otherwise ordinary-looking ground. This mining has been going on for at least a decade. The floors are ideally suited for small-scale mining as the minerals are not deep and floors are only found in areas that are already environmentally damaged. The miners live, often together with children and elders, near the sites where they have mined. Livelihoods destroyed For the past nine months, they have been engaging with the department and the mine in an effort to regularise their practices. The interdict was brought without any notice and jeopardises the entire regularisation process. If granted, it would abruptly destroy their livelihoods and have the effect of evicting them from their accommodation. Here is an example of an easily accessible solution to the interminable unemployment crises faced by our economy, but that receives short shrift from those in power as it goes against the gospel of neoliberal capital-intensive solutions. So, if Gordhan was truly interested in providing real solutions to the quagmire faced by our economy, we should expect him to do more than doff his hat in pretence of providing solutions before we elevate him to hero status. Surely the poor and marginalised deserve more than paternalism and theatre. Surely they deserve the right and opportunity to work? • Rutledge is the mining and extractives co-ordinator for ActionAid SA. 