A parliamentary subcommittee has been established to look into the need for, and possible legal instruments to, provide debt relief to overindebted households. The trade and industry committee has set up the subcommittee as a prelude to the possible inclusion of debt relief measures into the National Credit Act, or in a separate bill. It will look at the implications of legislating for debt relief measures and will engage with a range of stakeholders about this. DA spokesperson on trade and industry Geordin Hill-Lewis said he was pleased that the terms of reference for the subcommittee had been adopted with the aim of ensuring that it did a "proper, detailed drilling down into the concept of debt relief and the legal challenges it would entail". "We will invite expert witnesses and industry to comment," Hill-Lewis said. He cautioned that care would have to be taken not to provide incentives for reckless consumption by consumers who expect to be taken care of in future by credit providers or the state. Overindebtedness has worsened with the slowdown in economic growth and increasing joblessness and as at end-June a total of 9.67-million or about 40% of the 24.08-million credit active consumers had impaired records -these were three months or more in arrears, had an adverse listing with a credit bureau or were subject to a court judgement or administration order. Reckless lending has also played a role in this deterioration of the household indebtedness profile as some credit providers have provided credit to already overindebted consumers and failed to conduct affordability assessments. A study commissioned by the National Credit Regulator concluded that there was a need for the National Credit Act to make provision for the introduction of debt relief measures. The parliamentary subcommittee will develop criteria for the application of possible debt relief measures, which could possibly be included in a draft bill to be proposed by the trade and industry committee itself if permission is granted by Parliament for this. These criteria could include the target group of debtors who would be eligible for the relief, the period in which the measure would apply, the type of debt that would be covered and how the measure would be implemented. It would also unpack the possible policy and legal challenges that could arise from a particular measure. The regulator has announced that, from Friday, all credit providers will have to be registered with it under the National Credit Act. This follows the abolition of the requirement that registration was only required if total credit agreements amounted to R500,000 in value or at least 100 in number. © BDlive 2016