One has to wonder how all this political turmoil in this country will end, and what will be the fate of President Jacob Zuma. Gupta family members are, we have learnt since the Nkandla debacle began, friends of Zuma. They have provided his children with apparently lucrative careers and drawn his other relatives and loyalists into their orbit — unless the accounts in the past seven years by scores of journalists and others including former public protector Thuli Madonsela have been completely inaccurate. Zuma insists that he has not benefited from his Gupta friends, and perhaps this would be believable if the business interests of his wives, children, nephew and friends had nothing to do with him. And yet, Zuma has failed to see that his relationship with the Gupta family has not benefited him in the long term. It has dug a hole for him that is much deeper than the one he was in before he became president. Until then, Zuma faced — or didn’t, depending on which court was hearing the latest round in the legal battle — charges related to his relationship with Schabir Shaik, who was convicted for corruption and fraud. Now, Zuma faces a much more serious set of charges, in addition to the earlier charges related to his relationship with Shaik, which at some point must be reinstated. Now he faces charges not only of corruption, but possibly of treason and of subverting state institutions, including the prosecuting authorities, state-owned enterprises and the state broadcaster. Outside the legal sphere, he has been accused of single-handedly destroying the oldest liberation movement on the continent, of facilitating the corruption of members in the highest echelons of the ANC and of drawing a number of Cabinet members into a network of murky, destructive doings. All of this, Zuma must see, has worsened his position no end, and the only real beneficiaries — so far — have been the Guptas, who moved from a position of moderate wealth with their Sahara Computer Company to being billionaires many times over, with tentacles reaching into mining, print and broadcast media. Even the ANC and its leagues and indeed the government, at least its revenue service, are seemingly tainted by Gupta or Zuma contamination. By most accounts, the Guptas are eyeing the Treasury and they can do that only if Zuma is their man, their announcer, the one authorised to declare, if not decide, who is a Cabinet minister. Where can this end? Does Zuma really believe he can survive the mounting opprobrium of the nation? That the prosecuting and policing authorities can shield their gaze as frantic headlines reveal greater outrages? That the Guptas will be able to buy off every threat that emerges, as they seem to have been doing for some time? Do they imagine that the one really Big Deal — the one that can redeem all the other massive but much smaller, problematic deals — will be concluded even as it bankrupts the nation, while students bay for free education and police attend to service delivery protests every day? Do the Zumas and Guptas imagine that the Big Deal will go through as electricity becomes too expensive even for the middle class, petrol even more so, and we get used to an exchange rate much more debilitating than the level that prompted cries of "crisis" in 2003? Already, there are government departments that effectively kill off the mentally ill as their budgets are cut. Already, water is becoming a scarce commodity and food is moving further and further away from hungry mouths. Even our opiates are not keeping our minds off our problems. State broadcasting fails to inform and entertain, our sports lack budgets, leadership and direction, leaving the nation in a state of boredom, prone to distraction and violence. So, let’s imagine the Big Deal appears to go through. It will begin to make money for the Guptas only years from now. Zuma will leave the presidency in 2019. Does the president imagine that the Guptas will take care of him and his family as they cosy up to the new president and his or her loyalists? Even if the Zumas have worked out a watertight deal, will Zuma family members remain firmly installed as the legal owners of the uranium mines that feed the nuclear reactors, or … or as what? What of the hangers-on who are keeping Zuma from falling down that yawning chasm? Will they not, at some point, realise that they, too, are being used? That they will not survive the demise of this regime? How long will their mortgage bonds continue to be paid by someone else? How long before a new fearless prosecutor, who had been an ardent member of #FeesMustFall and is desperate to stop corruption so the government can fund free education for all, begins to look into the bank accounts of all these dubious deal makers? The Guptas have already secured for themselves a compound in Dubai. They have an escape route, should they manage to dodge the charges that are likely to loom in the near future — in about June 2019. Zuma and family will have only the Nkandla compound, far less glitzy than the one in Dubai, which will rapidly fall apart unless many millions of rand are spent on its upkeep every year. And the land does not even belong to the family! Zuma must, by now, realise that he has been used, that his future is bleak, unless he manages to mount some sort of political coup and remain in power, fending off not only service delivery protests, but rolling mass action or even a violent civil war. Will South Africans allow that to happen? I doubt it.