A four-timer at last Saturday’s Emperors Palace Charity meeting at Turffontein has catapulted 34-year-old Johan Janse van Vuuren into third place in the national trainers log. Wins by Girl On The Run, She’s A Giver, Doosra and New Predator earned more than R1m in stake money to place Van Vuuren behind only Justin Snaith and Sean Tarry in the trainers’ table. It was New Predator who emerged the real star of the quartet with the Aussie import responding to the driving of jockey Gavin Lerena to beat home Saratoga Dancer and Deo Juvente in the R1m Peermont Emperors Palace Charity Mile. Van Vuuren is probably pinching himself to believe he has made such an outstanding start to the 2016/17 season. At the beginning of October, he teamed up with Lerena to win the R750,000 Grand Heritage Handicap with Irish Pride. The same horse took fourth place in the Charity Mile. It was also a memorable meeting for Lerena, with the 31-year-old riding all four legs of the jackpot. He will have been surprised to win the R2.5m Emperors Palace Ready-To-Run Cup on Lucky Houdalakis’ runner Chili Con Carne as most pundits rated the favourite, Africa Rising, as the best bet. Saratoga Dancer and Deo Juvente, second and third in the Charity Mile, enhanced their prospects for the R2m Sansui Summer Cup on November 26. The well-fancied Rabada finished lame. Lerena will be in action at the Vaal on Tuesday, where he has seven rides on the eight-race card. Pick of his mounts could be the three-year-old At A Glance who is likely to start favourite in the second race. A daughter of Atso and trained by Paul Peter, At A Glance boasts two seconds and a fourth in her three starts. Her chief rival is likely to be Stuart Pettigrew’s filly, Lady Of The World. Alec Laird saddled a popular winner in Romi’s Boy on Saturday and he has booked Lerena for his Silvano filly, Flamingo Vlei, in Tuesday’s fourth race. The three-year-old looks set to step up on two fair efforts although Cosmo Russe will be a tough opponent in her third run after a break. Following his success on Chili Con Carne, it will be interesting to see if there is any support for the Houdalakis-Lerena combination in the third race in which they team up with newcomer Joyphillpist. This son of Philanthropist was bred by Gary Player. The horse to beat in this 1,200m sprint is another Sean Tarry inmate, Matador Man. Craig Zackey is enjoying a purple patch and is in fourth place in the national jockeys log. He might spring a surprise in the fifth race in which he partners Bondiblu for trainer Stanley Ferreira. While this is a competitive handicap with B Twenty One and My Cherry likely to be well supported, Bondiblu is better than her recent form suggests. Trainer Louis Goosen holds a strong hand in the final leg of the Pick 6 with two one-time winners, Effortless Reward and Hashtag Strat. He has booked Piere Strydom for the former, which suggests the Aussie import could be the stable elect. Lerena’s mount, Celtic Lady, is very much alive in this 1,000m sprint as Roy Magner’s filly ran a close second behind Movie Show on her most recent appearance.