Over the past decade, officials in Paris have turned increasing attention to helping people with a disorder that causes them to hoard objects in their homes. The disorder, called Diogenes syndrome, is characterised by neglect for hygiene, social withdrawal and an unwillingness to seek help. Last year, 148 cases of the disorder were reported in Paris, up from just 20 a decade ago, says Pascal Martin, head of the city’s technical housing department. "It’s very worrying," he says. Because people with Diogenes syndrome don’t seek help, it’s often relatives, a body corporate, landlord or even a firefighter who alert officials. Agents from social services often find unsanitary living conditions when they come to the homes of hoarders. Even if officials are able to enter the house, they can find it difficult to move around because of the accumulated waste. Sometimes these agents can’t even see the floor. "Some people climb the walls of debris in order to move from one room to another," says Patrick Bachelet of the company Professional Cleaning Services. He says he’s found all sorts of things in these homes: empty or full bottles, newspapers from years ago, excrement, rotting food, odds and ends. The waste can be up to 3m high, he says. People with Diogenes syndrome live a secluded life, making the disorder difficult to detect. Housing that is crammed with junk may pose a threat to physical, mental and social health. Moreover, such homes can cause fires and the collapse of walls, endangering the lives of people living in the house as well as those of neighbours. At the Paris technical housing department, Martin recalls one case in 2010 that particularly struck him. In the 17th arrondissement (district) of Paris, he found an astonishing sight in an apartment of 170m². "It was filled from floor to ceiling. We had to remove 37 tonnes of garbage and cartons of all sorts in five weeks." Not everything from the house is thrown away. Furniture, administrative documents and valuables are retained. Sometimes the sorting is done with the person who hoarded the debris. "We use a humane approach," says Martin. "We have to be very careful when they return to their homes," says Isabelle Péan, deputy head of a local centre for information and co-ordination at Paris Emerald West, a service for gerontologists that is funded by the government. "It’s very stressful for people to see their homes emptied and cleaned. It’s therefore very important to not clean everything perfectly," she says, noting that there have been situations where people didn’t want to return to their homes. Officials from social services, doctors and cleaning companies say there’s an increase in the number of Diogenes cases reported. "We never had so many requests. Since the beginning of this year, between 200 and 300 persons have contacted us to intervene," says Younes Jaouhari of Chronopropre, a cleaning business based in the French city of Rennes. Dr Jean-Claude Monfort, an expert on Diogenes syndrome, doesn’t believe the actual number of people with the disorder has increased. It’s just that there’s better reporting of the problem. "The perception of this syndrome has changed," he says. "Before, people with Diogenes syndrome were seen as unhealthy people. They were relegated to the scandal columns of newspapers. People weren’t taking any action. "Today, social services, health professionals, firefighters and the general public are familiar with this phenomenon. There has been a kind of growing awareness." Diogenes syndrome is commonly associated with addiction and depression as well as cognitive diseases such as Alzheimer’s. But there are some exceptions — people can hoard without having any of the aforementioned conditions, according to Péan. Monfort estimates that in France about one in 2,000 (or 30,000 overall) hoard in ways that require outside intervention, though the actual number, along with many other aspects of the syndrome, remains very much a mystery. New York Times