When more than 100 seasoned veterans of the ANC sign a public declaration of no confidence in their leadership some explanation is required. This is no rank-and-file rebellion. Many of these veterans held high office, as ministers, senior public servants or were top leaders in the party’s national executive committee. Many are well-known public figures, like Ahmed "Kathy" Kathrada, who remained reticent on their misgivings about the direction the country was taking in recent years, but are now outspoken about their concern. Their distress goes to the heart of governance in the ANC and the government. They are saying that the values of the movement are being systematically undermined and eroded. "The leadership of the ANC as a collective has failed the people of SA. It has defended the personal interests of some leaders at the expense of the public good and the credibility of the organisation." The indignation of these veterans can be seen in every paragraph of their declaration and had better be taken seriously by Luthuli House. These are people with many years of experience in political life, with access to support and resources. If they choose to mobilise opinion within the organisation and in the public domain, their word will carry a lot of weight. How to explain this explosion of anger? Clearly, it reflects a build-up of frustration over rampant corruption, state capture and manipulation of appointments to top positions in state institutions, often with incompetent individuals, and many botch-ups by an administration that is at a loss as to what to do. These veterans have chosen not to resign, and remain signed-up members of the ANC. This puts them in a strong position as defenders of the organisation. They seem to be saying: the traditions we represent are noble and those who are destroying them should resign. The ANC has experienced similar crises of confidence before. The most notable was in Morogoro, Tanzania, in 1969 when the military units in exile were disenchanted with the way the struggle was being pursued. They believed the leadership had become complacent and seemed to be accepting life in exile. Oliver Tambo responded by convening a special conference during which he offered his and the ANC executive’s resignation. A similar moment was the disagreements on the way forward in 1991, after the ANC leadership returned from exile and was beginning to negotiate with the apartheid regime. There were substantial differences on the continuation of the armed struggle, the concessions that might be made to the regime, and many other matters. Nelson Mandela played a crucial role in creating a sense of unity and Thabo Mbeki was superb at containing the tensions. The conference managed to legitimate the negotiations leading to the government of national unity. What all this demonstrated was that wise and mature leadership was able to ride out serious crises and find a way forward broadly acceptable to the membership as a whole. It is a remarkable record. The veterans now seem to feel that the current crisis is one of the worst faced by the organisation for a long time. This is apparently the result of manipulation of processes at conferences of the ANC, which have taken on the character of rallies, rather than grappling with important issues. The rally culture has been promoted by President Jacob Zuma with his singing, the encouragement of toyi-toyi-ing at the expense of debating time, and the expansion of membership to people who are ignorant and indifferent to the history and principles of the ANC. And yet, despite these distortions, the veterans who signed the declaration still have very strong sentiments about the ANC and its traditions. It was a feature of my life in exile that when I spoke about our positions to audiences abroad, I was treated as an honoured guest. No more. Now one is questioned about corruption and many political deviations that are hard to explain. The notion that the ANC is a liberation movement for the exploited and oppressed within the context of a multiracial democracy seems to be fading, replaced by naked opportunism for public office and personal greed. I trust that the declaration of the veterans will bring us back to where we should be. Perhaps we should even raise the bar to identify more concretely the kind of economy and polity we need. • Prof Turok is a former ANC MP who now edits New Agenda SA, Journal of Social and Economic Policy. He is a signatory of the recent declaration by ANC veterans.