Next year’s facelift of Mercedes-Benz’s flagship S-Class limousine will usher in a new range of V8, in-line six-cylinder and four-cylinder engines. A modular range of petrol and diesel engines is set to sprinkle throughout the range. Based around modular 500cc single-cylinder architecture, the engines will all use turbocharging and will range from in-line fours to in-line sixes and an AMG-developed 4.0l biturbo V8. The all-new engines will include a 2.0l, four-cylinder turbodiesel, a 3.0l turbodiesel, a twin-scroll four-cylinder petrol engine and an in-line turbocharged petrol-powered six-cylinder engine, with the M176 V8. VW’s world Scandal-hit Volkswagen is betting big on its US-built Atlas SUV to carry it back to credibility in North America. Actually, it’s betting big by making its Atlas the biggest SUV it has made yet. Fitting above the new mid-sized Tiguan and the full-sized Touareg SUVs, the seven-seat Atlas is being touted as an American Volkswagen, designed by Americans, for Americans, that just happens to be wearing a German badge. The Atlas is a departure in more than the "T" letter naming traditions of the German SUVs, and there is not a hint the SUV might ever be sold in the rest of the world. That’s partly guaranteed because when it goes on sale early next year, it will only be built with a 2.0l, turbocharged four-cylinder engine or a 3.6l VR6 motor, both fuelled by petrol. Europe, Asia and markets like Australia will instead get a long-wheelbase version of the Tiguan, complete with a third row of seats for seven people. Volkswagen SA says it has no plans to bring the larger Tiguan to our market. At 5,037mm long, the Atlas has been designed as the biggest SUV VW will build off its near-ubiquitous MQB chassis architecture, which also sits beneath cars such as the Golf and the Passat. First-class soul Kia used the Sema custom vehicle show in Las Vegas to unveil a number of outlandish concepts. These included a snowbound Sorento with caterpillar tracks instead of wheels and the School of Rock Sedona which features a full sound recording studio inside. It also showed its Soul First Class, an upscale intercity chariot that lets business travellers work and relax as they journey to out-of-town meetings and destinations. This self-driving custom-built creation from LUX Motorwerks — with its rear-facing seats, absence of steering wheel and wide array of luxury enhancements — is about optimising work and rest. Eliminating the need for a driver, the Soul First Class has a revamped front dash that now houses two rear-facing front seats. The Soul’s passengers are greeted by a 40-inch Samsung LED TV connected to a Mac minicomputer system and premium audio speakers. A custom motorised centre console reveals two tablets, which control this futuristic model. In other news … Ford is testing the next generation of its GT supercar. Just 250 will be built over the next three years. The new GT boasts a 3.5l Ecoboost V6 producing over 447kW, which it pushes through a dual-clutch transmission. Expect improved performance over the last version thanks in part to more carbon fibre and aluminium to reduce weight. Porsche is putting the finishing touches to its GT3. Apart from styling changes, purists will be pleased to hear the new version remains normally aspirated. Mitsubishi is testing its 2018 XR SUV against the new Kia Sportage and Ford Escape. The company is planning to slot the XR in below the larger seven-seater Outlander. Like the Outlander it will be available internationally as a plug-in hybrid (PHEV), but should it come to SA then expect it to feature a diesel engine. Mitsubishi SA has already counted out any possibility of bringing the Outlander PHEV, the world’s best-selling plug-in hybrid to our market as the exchange rate would make it too expensive. Opel’s British division, Vauxhall, has officially opened its police car factory, the largest of its kind in Europe, at its manufacturing plant in the UK. The factory will convert 2,500 vehicles per year for use by police forces, and fire and ambulance services nationwide. An array of Vauxhalls will be converted for use by the emergency services with cars including Corsa, Astra, Insignia and Mokka, and commercial vehicles such as Combo, Movano and Vivaro vans. Vauxhall is the only manufacturer to offer a one-stop shop for blue-light vehicles. Everything is done in-house from testing to converting and even re-marketing of decommissioned vehicles. Perhaps General Motors SA should look at something similar to keep its production lines busy.