Florence &mdash; Normally, there would be very little for the Springboks to gain from a match against Italy, but in the context of the season they have endured, Saturday&rsquo;s clash at the Artemio Franchi Stadium is vital.With only four wins from 10 Tests in 2016, and just one victory in their past six Tests, a simple win over the Italians will be an immeasurable boost of confidence for the beleaguered team. With Wales to come next weekend, the Springboks need every ounce of confidence they can draw from what could be a tricky match that is expected to be played in drizzling conditions.Coach Allister Coetzee made two changes to the starting lineup to the team that lost 37-21 to England last week and three on the bench. Veteran wing Bryan Habana returns after injury and flank Nizaam Carr will start for the first time, at openside.Carr will be a central figure on Saturday, as the Boks have identified the breakdown as a key battleground this week."We ve got to win the race to the ball this weekend," Coetzee said. "Italy tackle around the legs with the first man coming in hard over the ball. So, we have to make sure we win that race."Nizaam should do well in that department in securing possession to build continuity for us," the coach said.Carr, who will earn his fourth Test cap, thought he might never have the chance again. After making his Test debut off the bench against Italy in Padua in 2014, his Test career stalled during a mediocre 2015 season."I ve stepped up mentally and I m the in-form Nizaam Carr that people know. I want to be a special player again and not just a number in the team. I went through a slump, especially in 2015. But I don t want to dwell on the past."On Saturday, he will lead the Boks breakdown effort against the rugged Italian unit. If he brings the form that made him a Bok, he will have a chance to reprise the role against Wales in Cardiff next week and possibly beyond. It is a second chance and one he hopes to take.The All Blacks thrashed Italy 68-10 last weekend, scoring 10 tries in the process, but Coetzee was not reading much into that, considering his side s own problems this season."It would be a mistake to compare ourselves to New Zealand," Coetzee said. "They re a well-oiled machine and there s continuity in their group."[Italy coach] Conor O Shea is starting with a new group of players, and I know what it s like trying to get a team to gel."With Pieter-Steph du Toit and Lood de Jager reunited at lock due to Eben Etzebeth s concussion, the lineout should not suffer while the scrum should not be underpowered either.The set piece has been a positive area of the game for the Boks, but it is away from structure in which they have struggled. Defensively, the Boks have been poor, conceding 31 tries in those 10 Tests.Habana, who will win his 124th Test cap for the Boks, sat in the coaches box at Twickenham last week and found it stressful. He cannot wait to be back on the pitch to play his role in a more familiar environment."I ve only sat in the coaches box twice before in my career [in 2004 and 2011] and it was a weird feeling," Habana said."We are in a tough situation, but there is no one that is going to get us out of it but ourselves. It s been a good week of training, but winning the Test will be about the performance we put in between the four lines."