Ructions between the Department of Police and the Independent Police Investigative Directorate (Ipid) are creating a perception that law enforcement bodies are being used to fight personal battles and this could do untold harm to law enforcement in SA, MPs say. On Monday, police portfolio committee chairman Francois Beukman announced that Police Minister Nathi Nhleko would be summoned to Parliament next week to explain the impasse between him and heads of police agencies. The minister has been embroiled in a feud with Ipid executive director Robert McBride and tried unsuccessfully to have him suspended a second time. Parliament rejected Nhleko’s request for a commission of inquiry into McBride’s fitness to hold office. Such an inquiry would have empowered the minister to suspend the Ipid chief again.  McBride was originally suspended by the minister on allegations he had tampered with a report on illegal renditions of Zimbabweans from Musina. He denied the charge and successfully contested his suspension in the Constitutional Court before being reinstated. Soon after his reinstatement, Nhleko said the relationship between him and McBride had so "severely deteriorated" that he could not see himself working closely with him. The Ipid is also investigating acting national police commissioner Khomotso Phahlane over claims he had defeated the ends of justice during a probe into his multimillion-rand house. Nhleko will hold a briefing today on Ipid and recent media reports that his girlfriend received R30m in contract work from the department without it going to tender. "We need confidence in the law enforcement agencies and any indications of strife are going to harm the public confidence," said Beukman. Police spokesman Sandile Ngidi could not immediately confirm Nhleko had received the summons, but said in principle there was no reason the minister would not avail himself to the portfolio committee. Ipid spokesman Moses Dlamini said should Parliament call on the directorate to brief MPs on the state of affairs between itself and the police, Ipid would do so. "We would be able to respond if and when we are called to respond to Parliament ourselves. But there is nothing to say at this stage. We are also finding out along with everyone else," said Dlamini. Institute for Security Studies analyst Johan Burger said the relationship breakdown between McBride and Nhleko creates a difficult, if not outright impossible, situation for both. It was necessary for Parliament to intervene and ensure that both parties could carry out their responsibilities, he said. "The minister is clearly unhappy with how Parliament left him in the lurch. But Parliament can say that if he followed due process, then this would not have happened," said Burger. Nhleko had failed to make the distinction between political accountability and operational independence, he said.