Poor short-term performance in some of Coronation’s funds may have been a catalyst for net outflows of R79bn over the year to September, CEO Anton Pillay said on Tuesday. "We don’t think [poor] performance is a cause of the outflow, but it might have been a catalyst. Some of our funds have been under pressure [over the past 12 months]," he said. Despite these outflows, Coronation’s assets under management dropped just R11bn to R599bn over the 12 months to September, boosted by investment returns. These outflows followed a sustained period of exceptionally high inflows, which Coronation knew were not sustainable, Pillay said. "At the peak, Coronation was attracting 30%-35% of the flows in the long-term asset management space." Coronation has a 13.1% market share in the long-term retail unit trust industry and nearly 15% in the institutional sector. The bulk of the outflows (R61bn) were from its institutional business, which had assets under management of R374bn. Coronation had closed its South African equity and multi-asset portfolios to new investors more than four years ago to protect investment outcomes for existing clients, Pillay said. Coronation had retail assets under management of R225bn at September 30, after experiencing net outflows of R18bn during the year. The overall level of retail inflows into the unit trust industry had fallen significantly in the 12 months to September, Pillay said. Whereas industry flows had averaged roughly R70bn per annum over the past eight years, this had slowed to roughly R40bn in the past year, reflecting the weak economic environment. Flows were also affected by a pushback from life insurers seeking to stem the outflow of funds to unit trusts, Pillay said. The rise of discretionary investment managers, who advised independent financial advisers (IFAs) on asset allocation, meant Coronation was getting a smaller share of funds from IFAs as these were being spread across a broader range of asset managers. Unless markets recovered, Coronation’s assets under management could fall further in the next six months, said an analyst who would not be named. Weaker investment returns led to a decline in performance fees that drove Coronation’s revenue 9% lower to R4bn when compared to the previous period. This in turn led to a 13.3% fall in diluted headline earnings per share. "Investment performance is improving so earnings and assets under management should improve," said Avior Capital Markets analyst Harry Botha. The performance of certain key portfolios was quite considerably ahead of the benchmark in the last few months, he said. Coronation has implemented a new retail fee structure whereby it charges a lower fixed fee on its equity portfolios, supplemented by a performance fee. If it does not outperform the relevant benchmarks over two to five years it will then reduce the fixed fee over that time. That Coronation provided a fee discount for underperformance was attractive for investors, Botha said. "We think we’ve had a good year. It’s in line with our expectations in a challenging environment," Pillay said.