For a company that has thrived from understanding its customers, Dis-Chem’s handling of its JSE listing was surprisingly hamfisted. It turned what should have been the celebration of a family-based retail success into a public relations disaster. The decision to exclude retail investors (Dis-Chem customers and employees) from the private placement of 237-million Dis-Chem shares and allocate the lot to large institutional clients meant the listing failed to attain a number of the company’s own objectives. Included in the reasons for the listing was enhancing Dis-Chem’s profile with investors and customers and motivating employees; well that did not happen last week. In addition, the listing was intended to diversify the company’s shareholder base and create a liquid market. The best way of achieving both those objectives is to bring in many retail investors; fund managers tend to lack diversity and are more inclined to be long-term holders. No doubt Dis-Chem’s reputation was enhanced among the big fund managers, some of whom scored a profit of about R73.5m on Friday’s share trading, and some of whom may even be Dis-Chem customers. An estimated 21-million shares were traded on Friday at R23.26-R20.55. This represents a handy profit on the R18.50 the fund managers paid for their allocation a week or so earlier. But it is very likely the elderly lady (and the many like her) who cashed in R1m of her not-so-large share portfolio in the hope of becoming a Dis-Chem shareholder will, following her failure to get any shares, be tempted to turn to Clicks for her pharmaceutical needs. Private wealth managers are generally a fairly phlegmatic bunch of people, they are hardened professionals who have little time for emotions and, because markets are amorphous, they are accustomed to things not always going their way. But last week they broke cover to complain about how the listing was handled. "Why did they invite us to apply if they had no intention of allocating any shares to us?" asked one disgruntled wealth manager. "A lot of our clients were excited about it, they know Dis-Chem and wanted to be investors." Wealth managers who submitted applications for tens of millions of rands of shares received a curt, one-line response from Standard Bank on Tuesday informing them they were out of luck. Apparently not even Standard Bank’s own wealth managers received an allocation. By the close of trade on Friday there was still no credible explanation for why Dis-Chem had decided to allocate all the shares to large fund managers. The company is not revealing any details about who got the shares or what the level of subscription was. Dis-Chem cofounder and CEO Ivan Saltzman said on Friday that there were only so many shares that could be allocated in the process. Retail investors and wealth managers were not persuaded. New listings are almost always over-subscribed. The traditional response is to trim back the allocations proportionately above a certain volume. So, if it is seven times oversubscribed everyone gets one-seventh of what they applied for. Analysts seemed unexcited about the listing and generally thought it overpriced. "At R21 it’s on an historic price-earnings rating of 35.5 times," said Sasfin analyst Alec Abraham. "That’s extremely steep, especially compared with Clicks, which is substantially larger and has a long history on the JSE." Dis-Chem has said it wants to double its store base in the next five years and Abraham is looking for compound annual earnings growth of about 25%. But even with these bullish prospects he feels there is no rush to buy the shares. Sit back and wait is a view shared by many analysts. Ahead of the listing Consilium’s Andrew Cuffe described the proposed R16.25 to R20.25 price range as aggressive. "We would be prepared to forego the potential short-term price upside on listing and wait for price weakness." Cuffe said Dis-Chem provides a high-quality, faster-than-average growth in a defensive market segment but a weaker rand-dollar exchange rate (if US interest rates increase) and possible ratings downgrade create potential for price weakness. The listing created a nice R2.2bn payback for the Saltzman family. The allocation included 87-million of the family’s shares, which means they picked up R1.6bn of the R4.4bn raised. In addition, the family’s share of the exceptionally generous dividend declared in March (in anticipation of the listing) was R583m. Of course, if Dis-Chem achieves its growth objectives in the coming years few will remember the listing debacle.