London — With a 44% winning record in 2016‚ the Springboks are on course for their worst season in the professional era if positive results continue to elude them on their current tour to Britain and Italy. The Boks play a warm-up against the Barbarians at Wembley on Saturday before three Tests against England‚ Italy and Wales on successive weekends. On form‚ they might be in for at least two more defeats. England have won nine Tests in a row since Eddie Jones became coach last December, while Wales are a formidable team at home. The Welsh won the 2014 clash against the Boks in Cardiff and will be quietly confident of another victory against a Springbok team in transition. For Bok coach Allister Coetzee this tour is primarily about winning‚ but he has to juggle that need with player and tactical development as well. It is a tough task‚ given the mounting pressure after a string of poor results. Although Coetzee has suggested patience is needed‚ he more than most understands that a losing Springbok season will erode whatever dwindling goodwill remains towards him. He was assistant coach in 2006 when head coach Jake White was recalled to SA during their northern hemisphere tour to answer a vote of no confidence after dismal results that season. A decade ago White’s Boks lost seven of 12 Tests‚ which included a record 49-0 defeat against the Wallabies in Brisbane. They also endured five defeats in a row. That was statistically the worst season in the professional era with the Boks winning 42% of matches. But they did beat the All Blacks in Rustenburg and England at Twickenham in the last Test of the year‚ which effectively saved White’s job 11 months before the Boks went on to win the World Cup in France. Coetzee saw at first hand what turmoil poor results and political backstabbing could sow in a team environment and he will be desperate to avoid a similar scenario in 2016. The England match on November 12 looms as the tour’s make-or-break fixture. England have not beaten the Boks since that same 2006 tour when White was recalled. They played in successive weekends at Twickenham 10 years ago with the Boks winning the second encounter 25-14‚ which started their current 12-match unbeaten run against the Roses. A decade ago that victory ended a tough year on a positive note and allowed the Boks to gather momentum‚ which ended in World Cup glory the following year. The ramifications of a win at Twickenham next weekend might be as vital for Coetzee’s team. In the short term it would boost confidence and build momentum for tricky fixtures against Italy on November 19 and Wales a week later. Similarly a loss at Twickenham could make the tour a long‚ hard slog and leave Springbok rugby in turmoil after earlier season embarrassments that included a record 57-15 loss to the All Blacks in Durban. To compound matters Coetzee has a long injury and unavailability list that would make most coaches blanche. In the pack, tightheads Frans Malherbe‚ Jannie du Plessis and Julian Redelinghuys are injured, as are flanks Francois Louw‚ Marcell Coetzee‚ Siya Kolisi and Jaco Kriel. Eighthman Duane Vermeulen is unavailable because his conditioning is not up to standard after a long injury layoff and veteran hooker Bismarck du Plessis is injured. Injury has also cut a swathe through the backline with flyhalf Handré Pollard‚ centres Juan de Jongh and Jan Serfontein and wing Lwazi Mvovo all out. But that is the nature of the sport and England are also struggling with injuries to key players. Lock Maro Itoje and centre Anthony Watson are out for the rest of the year, while enforcer Courtney Lawes is also in doubt for the Bok match. Coetzee can legitimately highlight many reasons why the Boks have struggled, from underconditioned players to skills deficits, due to coaching weaknesses at provincial level. But that is the space he operates in and so he just has to get on and somehow make his squad better by fixing what he can while hoping for a bit of luck along the way. TMG Digital