Sao Paulo &mdash; Travelling on the doomed airliner that crashed in Colombia were the players and staff of a Brazilian football club about to complete a fairy-tale journey from unknowns to would-be South American champions.The charter plane went down near Medellin late on Monday with 81 people aboard and so far, only six are reported to have survived. Rescuers said the team&rsquo;s goalkeeper Marcos Danilo Padilha "died while being transferred" to hospital.For the Chapecoense Real team, the disaster means the cruel end of a story that had been meant to climax with an unexpected chance for glory on Wednesday against Colombia&rsquo;s Atletico Nacional in the first leg of the Copa Sudamericana final."The pain is terrible. Just as we had made it, I will not say to the top, but to have national prominence, a tragedy like this happens. It is very difficult, a very great tragedy," club vice-president Ivan Tozzo said.Only a few years ago, Chapecoense was just another gritty outfit in the Brazilian lower leagues, where players, unable to afford cars, took the bus to training. The stadium in Chapeco, a city of 200,000 people in Santa Catarina state, did not have a gym.&nbsp;The steep climb from minnows to contenders started in 2009, when Chapecoense entered the fourth division. Back then, the team&rsquo;s top goal scorer, Bruno Rangel, told Brazilian newspaper Lance that the club&rsquo;s bus was "very old"."But a lot has changed in the club since I arrived," he said. "There are still prejudices against the club, but more because we&rsquo;re from the interior. That&rsquo;s diminishing. Every day, we&rsquo;re more respected."By 2014 the club had fought its way into the lower half of the elite table, but the side wanted more. Even at this point, Chapecoense were almost ignored by their own public, with only about 7,000 people turning up to home games.Chapecoense entered the running for the Copa Sudamericana for the first time in 2015 and did not disappoint.In the club&rsquo;s first international tournament, the one-time unknowns did not go all the way, but they performed bravely, defeating Argentina&rsquo;s famed River Plate club.In 2016, things seemed to be going wrong. The coach credited with Chapecoense&rsquo;s miraculous rise, Guto Ferreira, walked out and his replacement, Caio Junior, lost his first game against the lowly Cuiaba.But the little team roared back, taking down Argentina s Independiente and Junior de Barranquilla. They were going to the final to meet the reigning Copa Libertadores champions, Atletico Nacional, and no one would write them off any more. On the way to Colombia, the team stopped off in Sao Paulo to play the penultimate game of Brazil s domestic league. Here they lost against Palmeiras, which ended the season as Brazilian champions.But there was a sense the players had their minds on the bigger challenge awaiting them against Atletico."I see this is a group of winners. It s as if God has put us precisely here today to taste this and to appreciate even more the challenge on Wednesday," the coach said after the Sao Paulo game.Now their dreams have met a devastating end and, on Wednesday at what would have been an intriguing first leg of the Copa Sudamericana final, there will be only silence.In Chapeco, the stadium was opened up for grieving families and fans. "We re all here at the stadium," said Tozzo. "It hasn t really sunk in yet."Two weeks ago, the same plane was used to fly the Argentine national team with Lionel Messi on board to San Juan, Argentina, for a World Cup qualifying match.AFP