Anglo American has introduced a change to its strategy, tweaking its plans to exit a large number of its mines as commodity prices increase and cost cutting works to improve the financial performance of its assets. This has given shareholders hope of a resumption of dividends from the middle of 2017. Anglo CE Mark Cutifani hosted a number of analysts on a visit to the group’s premier diamond and platinum assets in Southern Africa, outlining the slight change to the strategy unveiled in 2015 to dispose of bulk commodity assets and narrow the focus to just diamonds, platinum and copper. While the focus on the core three commodities remains firmly intact, it is the pressure on Anglo to dispose of iron ore, coal and manganese that has lessened as higher commodity prices and improved operational efficiencies and cash generation contribute to an improved balance sheet. Cutifani told analysts net debt should end 2016 below its target of $10bn, with some analysts forecasting $9.5bn. Cutifani said Anglo was not "as pressed as we were to make the changes" and the company was further ahead in the process of restructuring the business than it expected to be. "We can be a lot tougher in the price we are asking for our assets," he said, adding that Anglo would not sell assets in the commodities in which it held the dominant position. Anglo owns 85% of De Beers, the largest rough diamond producer by value, and 80% of Anglo American Platinum, the world’s largest platinum producer and one that wants to have at least 70% of its operations mechanised. It aims to be a top-three copper producer with its suite of assets. In 2012, Anglo had 68 mines and intended to take the number down to 37 mines. However, it has 42 mines left and is producing more commodities than it did out of the 68 mines, with product produced per person rising 40%, pulling down operating costs by a third. In the past three months, prices in the commodities Anglo produces have risen, with the metallurgical coal business in Australia realising $300/tonne and thermal coal hitting $100/tonne. Iron ore with a 62% iron content was delivered in China for $72/tonne. "Given the totally unexpected bonus that miners have received in 2016 due to the unexpected rise in commodity prices, many mining companies are rethinking strategies formed in the dark days of late 2015," said Investec global mining strategist Jeremy Wrathall. According to the Xinhua News Agency, the Chinese government had by the end of October closed 45-million tonnes of steel capacity and 250-million tonnes of coal capacity. "Short-term demand growth is said to have created an unexpected demand-supply gap, pushing up steel, coal and iron ore prices," said SP Angel analyst John Meyer. 