UK banks – including SA’s Investec, which has a primary listing in London – face considerable operational uncertainty after the British people voted in a June referendum to leave the EU. Brexit, as it is known, threatens UK banks’ "passporting" rights. These allow banks to sell products and services across the 27-member EU without having to secure a separate licence for each country. Investec appears to be gearing up to rely less on private banking as its main revenue generator. Business Day reported that its less capital-intensive asset and wealth management units increased their contribution to 39.9% of operating profit for the six months to September, from 34% in the comparable period. The bank said it would focus on "capital-light" business, such as asset management, to improve its return on equity. This strategy may or may not be Brexit-related, but it would make sense in the event of a hard Brexit, in which passporting rights will be forfeited. The bank’s asset management unit already has funds managed by a Luxembourg-domiciled entity, which enables it to distribute these funds to the rest of Europe. While it has a licensed financial services business in Dublin, this would not enable it to take deposits on the UK balance sheet if passporting came to an end. On the JSE, Investec Plc gave up 17.4% in the two days of trading following the EU referendum and remains more than 12% below its pre-Brexit level, although the share price has recovered on the LSE. Its rival, Citibank, believes the British government will secure passporting rights for UK-based financial services companies. Still, it is preparing for the opposite outcome and says Brexit was not its preferred outcome. Similarly, Investec’s Stephen Koseff says he was disappointed by the vote. While it is unlikely to be ruinous in any way, Brexit is as unlikely to be good for Investec’s future offshore earnings. Rosemary Hunter, the former deputy registrar for pension funds, has secured a court date to compel her former employer to institute an independent investigation into the dormant and orphan funds cancellations saga. In lengthy litigation that has drawn in blue chips such as Liberty and exposed bad blood on either side, Financial Services Board head Dube Tshidi has called Hunter an "angry, distrustful, and even vengeful woman", while Hunter accuses Tshidi of corruption. She first sought to compel the FSB to release a confidential report compiled by retired judge Kate O’Regan about the cancellation of more than 4,600 funds. These funds either lacked assets, liabilities or members, or were operating without boards of trustees. O’Regan asked for an in-depth forensic audit to complete her report – which was duly completed by professional services firm KPMG. Hunter also sought this report. Although the reports were released to her, Hunter is now seeking a court order for an independent investigation under court supervision. Hunter, whose FSB contract has expired, suspects officials enriched themselves, a matter which she says has not been investigated. Nevertheless, the inquiries so far seem to have been above board, and one has to ask how much more independence is needed. • Neels Blom edits Company Comment (blomn@bdlive.co.za)