The R14.5bn loss for 2015 incurred by state-owned oil company PetroSA was due to management and board incompetence by rushing into a $261m project to drill for gas without proper preparation, a confidential report, soon to be tabled in Parliament, states. The loss is the biggest yet by a state-owned enterprise. The report is a summary of 11 investigations and consultants reports into Project Ikhwezi, a well-drilling project for liquefied natural gas, which was to be used as feedstock for PetroSA’s Mossel Bay refinery to prolong the plant’s life. However, drilling yielded only 10% of the gas that had been expected. While some of the investigations point to irregularities and a possibility of bribery and corruption in aspects of the project, the bigger problem appears to have been that investment decisions were made without the necessary technical information and that management instability had undermined the project. A report by consultancy IPA Advisory last February states that the project "was established with less than average practices" in the preparation stage because "the team did not have enough time pre final investment decision to complete definition work". It also notes that "there were gaps in the basic data on the gas reservoirs … which ultimately had an impact on the likely recoverable volume … and the production rate that could be achieved". The report further reads "considerable changes of PetroSA management impacted on the true status of the project not being fully understood until late in the project". When the extent of the impairment became known last year, Energy Minister Tina Joemat-Pettersson suspended three top executives including CEO Nosizwe Nokwe-Macamo and chief financial officer Lindiwe Bakoro. However, the reports make it clear the key decisions on Project Ikhwezi had been made before their tenure began. One of the reports — by Sizwe Ntasaluba in July 2015 — found the company had no case against them, leading to both receiving severance packages. However, evidence of real wrongdoing by other executives is uncovered in the reports. Another investigation by Sizwe Ntsaluba in 2013 found then acting CEO, Yekeni Tenza, had incurred R30m in fruitless expenditure after he appointed an engineering firm for a contract, when another firm would have done the work for far less. Tenza is also found to have bypassed procurement processes by establishing two sub-committees for procurement and project management from which PetroSA’s supply chain manager was excluded. The board delegated its authority to approve contracts of more than R200m to the subcommittee, in which Tenza had a casting vote. PetroSA later won a default judgment against Tenza for two other PetroSA projects in which he had been involved. Parliament’s portfolio committee on energy is expected to discuss the reports before Parliament rises for the year. It was reported last week the committee had held a hearing with PetroSA behind closed doors. Committee chairman Fikile Majola said the committee had not had such a hearing.