Coal miner Keaton Energy reported a swing to profit for the interim period despite a dip in sales as the company cleaned up its portfolio and repaid debt. Keaton recorded net profit of R21m for the six months to end-September compared to a R97m loss in the same period a year earlier. Profit was dragged down by a R17m loss from discontinued operations. Keaton has bundled a number of its anthracite mines in KwaZulu-Natal, including Vaalkraantz Colliery, for sale and is awaiting approval from the Department of Mineral Resources to transfer mining rights to the new buyer. The company, which has the Vanggatfontein colliery in Mpumlanga as its flagship mine and cash generator for the company, noted its current liabilities exceeded its current assets by R67m at the end of September. However, after the end of the interim period, it held talks with Gunvor, a creditor, and agreed a delay in a loan repayment, which lifted a portion of debt out of the current liabilities. Keaton also reached agreement with the Industrial Development Corporation (IDC) on a preference share scheme related to Leeuw Mining and Exploration (LME), whereby Keaton bought the preference shares held by the IDC for R8.8m in full and final settlement of the preference share liability of R39m. The board said the cash from its Vanggatfontein mine, which generated R580m in the interim period, together with the disposal of the loss-making Vaalkrantz colliery in KwaZulu-Natal, combined with the company’s ability to issue shares for cash and undrawn debt facilities, meant the company had adequate funding. Keaton’s Moabsvelden mining project received its water use licence during the period. The mine is to the north of Vanggatfontein. "The significant recovery in global coal prices has given the group flexibility to pursue alternative options in respect of the Moabsvelden offtake," the company said Keaton told the market last week it had received a number of expressions of interest that could entail the purchase of the entire company. Market watchers have speculated that potential suitors could be Sibanye Gold, which has set its sights on adding coal to its portfolio, or Coal of Africa Limited.