Hobart &mdash; Performance reviews are the bane of every working stiff&rsquo;s life, wastes of time that are forgotten as soon as they are completed.But, were Faf du Plessis to have to deal with one of these irrelevancies today, he might enjoy the experience.One-day series against Australia? Won it 5-0. Test series in Australia? Won it 2-0, and there is a chance to make it 3-0.Leadership along the way? Apparently effortless.Like classy wicketkeeping and umpiring, Du Plessis&rsquo;s captaincy is deceptively low key and barely noticeable.Decisions do not need on-field committee meetings, and if there is any angst out there it does not show.Rather, Du Plessis&rsquo;s reaction to rising tension has been, so far, the smile of the competitor relishing the challenge.About all there is against Du Plessis is footage of him during the second Test at Bellerive Oval in Hobart polishing the ball using a finger taken directly from his mouth &mdash; in which a round white object, possibly a mint or sweet, is clearly visible.Employing sugary sweets to enhance the ball&rsquo;s shine is a decades-old trick that is in a grey area of cricket&rsquo;s laws.In terms of law 42.3 players are allowed to apply naturally produced bodily substances such as sweat or saliva to the ball, but they may not use artificial aids.Clearly, sugary sweets are artificial. Just as clearly, players&rsquo; saliva would have to be tested before the start of play in every match and after every interval if the law was to be properly observed.The match officials had 18 hours after the match to take action, and they have not. Which leaves the matter in the hands of the International Cricket Council (ICC) or Cricket Australia (CA).The South African team management said on Wednesday the ICC had not "raised any concerns with us".When England did something similar during the 2005 Ashes series no one got into trouble. Besides, the Aussies are acutely aware of the injunction not to make excuses for their dismal performance. After all, it is the poms who whinge.All good, then. Thank you, captain Faftastic, your job is safe. Except that it is not. You might say Du Plessis is in danger of being elbowed out.Du Plessis, SA s appointed Twenty20 captain, has led them in those two rubbers against Australia only because AB de Villiers is at home recovering from elbow surgery.And when De Villiers returns to action, probably in SA s Test series against Sri Lanka that starts at St George s Park on December 26, he will also be back in charge."We re happy with Faf as our current stand-in," selection convenor Linda Zondi said in Hobart on Wednesday. "[But] at the moment that s our position AB is still the captain."Quite how the selectors are going to fit even a player as gifted as De Villiers into a team that is performing above and beyond every expectation is a tall enough order.More than that, justifying taking the captaincy from Du Plessis, who is clearly more comfortable at the helm than either De Villiers or his predecessor Hashim Amla, is going to take some doing."We will cross that bridge when we get there," Zondi said."Faf has done a very good job. It was an easy process for us when the decision was made because he was already the T20 captain."We are excited to have him as a leader. It just gives us more options. And we have other guys Hashim Amla also brings experience."Appointing the captain is a function of Cricket SA s board and not the selectors, although it is difficult to believe Zondi and his panel would not be con- sulted particularly as they have proved to have their fingers on the pulse of what the national team need to be successful.But it seems the board is happy to leave this ball in Zondi s court, at least for now."We don t feel the need to add any more on this issue as our convenor of selectors has adequately addressed this topic," media head Altaaf Kazi said in an e-mail exchange.Such issues are trivial compared to the deep hole Australia are in after SA inflicted their fifth consecutive Test loss on them in Hobart on Tuesday.The first casualty in that unfolding drama came on Wednesday when Rod Marsh resigned as selection chair hours after CA executive James Sutherland assured the media he would be allowed to see out his contract. But SA s captaincy question will soon be asked, and needs to be answered.