President Jacob Zuma’s future as president of SA hung in the balance on Sunday as his party’s top decision-makers debated at length whether he should step down in order to prevent further decline in the party’s electoral support. By Sunday evening, the ANC’s national executive committee (NEC) was still locked in discussions that were taking place in Zuma’s presence. The meeting is expected to continue on Monday. The talks began on Saturday when Tourism Minister Derek Hanekom proposed that Zuma step aside as president of the country, citing negative publicity that was harming the ANC. The talks reflect a considerable shift by the party’s NEC that has until now defended the president steadfastly despite the damaging Constitutional Court judgment on Nkandla and the party’s humiliating loss of support in the August local government elections. Insiders said it was significant that the matter was raised at all because Zuma enjoys the majority support on the NEC. The few members who stood up against him were for the first time brave enough to do so even though they depend on him for their livelihood. The ANC constitution does not make provision for the removal of a sitting party president. However, the party can recall its deployees from government — as the ANC did when it recalled former president Thabo Mbeki in 2008, three years after Zuma had been asked to step down as deputy president of the country by Mbeki. Those wanting Zuma to step down as the president of the country suggested a consultative conference be held to look into the question of how the party can remove an ANC president before the next conference. The calls for Zuma to step down arose from a discussion on former public protector Thuli Madonsela’s State of Capture report. It is understood that deep concern was expressed about the contents of the report and a lengthy discussion held on the allegations it raised, particularly regarding Eskom. NEC members felt that going into the 2019 election with the report hanging over the party would be damaging. Scandal after scandal has resulted in the ANC’s support dropping considerably during Zuma’s two terms as president. The ANC’s biggest losses have been in Gauteng — where it lost two metros in the 2016 local elections. This followed a huge drop in support for the ANC in the 2014 national election, where it fell from 62% in 2009 to 53% in 2014. Zuma on Friday announced he would approach the courts to review the remedial action outlined in Madonsela’s report, suggesting the state capture narrative is likely to dominate headlines well after his departure as party president in 2017. Hanekom tackled the issue of the effect of Zuma’s continued stay in the Union Buildings directly, saying he should be recalled as president. According to sources, many NEC members stood up to share their views about Zuma’s leadership — raising the issue of Nkandla and state capture as evidence of his poor leadership. Supporters of the president then went on the attack, coming out in his defence, with North West Premier Supra Mahumapelo lambasting Hanekom, characterising him a "counter-revolutionary". The meeting was adjourned on Saturday with no finality or resolution on the matter. It was shifted to Sunday when a discussion on whether the NEC should vote on the matter was discussed. It is understood that many Zuma supporters were not present at the meeting on Saturday due to the wedding of Ekurhuleni mayor Mzwandile Masina in the Western Cape. Many rushed back for the second day of the meeting on Sunday, described by sources as "tense", "ugly" and "bad".