Times may be challenging but that is no reason to take the "festive" entirely out of the season this year. Experts say it is possible to have all the cheer without a budgetary hangover. But for the lucky few who are getting an annual bonus, this is not the time to blow it on luxuries. Philip Faure, global head of wealth and investment at Standard Bank, says: "The current economic environment is tougher and, on balance, bonuses may be lower. "Most markets are overpriced and offshore equity is preferred. But the best return currently is in your mortgage bond. You get a risk-free, after-tax return equal to the interest you are paying." If possible, says Faure, "pay off your debt first. Start with the most expensive — your home loan and credit cards, then your car. It is still an investment." He advises that people also use spare cash to build up their retirement savings. "You can contribute up to 27.5% of your annual earnings, or R350,000 maximum, to retirement savings. "A bonus is generally after-tax money, but you will get the tax benefit in your annual tax return if investing excess funds up to this limit into a retirement annuity." A third option to consider is a tax-free savings account, available from banks, stockbrokers or investment managers. The annual cap is R30,000, with a maximum over time of R500,000 and these accounts attract no capital gains tax or income tax on gross return. "They make a great gift for your children," Faure says. Jewellery is always a welcome gift, although Dean Divaris, MD of Arthur Kaplan Jewellers, says the tough economic climate "has seen some consumers think twice about what to buy for Christmas. "But discerning consumers continue to invest in gifts that offer good value for money and are objects of desire. Jewellery and watches still prove popular gift options due to their longevity and value perceptions. "Diamonds have not lost their lustre as investment pieces and symbols of everlasting love. Our growth in this segment, despite a difficult general South African retail environment, indicates that consumers are spending more wisely, with a shift to items of intrinsic value. "There is also a keen awareness of the continually depreciating rand over the long term, which is not something we want as South African consumers generally, but it does support the case for purchasing diamond jewellery." The value of luxury timepieces is created by the excellence in manufacturing and craftsmanship, constantly evolving designs and materials, and high-end name brands backed by strong heritage and expertise, says Divaris. "Gifts of this nature maintain their value over years. They remain a symbol of prestige and success for your lifetime and beyond," he adds. Good jewellery deals can also be found online, if buyers find a reputable company. High-end brand watches can be found at chrono24.co.za. Its parent company is based in Germany but brokers deal with suppliers that deliver internationally. A Rolex Cellini, for example, is R40,660 online, compared with about R60,000 at a premium mall retailer. Delivery fees need to be factored in to the cost. Chrono24 stocks all the desired designer brands such as Panerai, Jaeger-LeCoultre – the beautiful Reverso Classique retails at about R45,000 – as well as Longines and Chopard. Brands for the younger generation can be found at watchfinder.co.za, which guarantees delivery within five working days. Browse the site for Fossil, Police, Timberland and Guess watches, as well as the quirky British brand Superdry, which combines Japanese and American style in attention-grabbing designs. Website takealot.com’s festive gift guide has lots of ideas for all ages, and delivery is guaranteed until December 24. People selling quality watches or buying a pre-owned classic this holiday season should try elitewatches.co.za. SA has many wonderful holiday destinations and there may still be some bargains for travellers venturing north of the Limpopo River. Airline companies do not routinely dump cheap flights during peak season, but a destination that probably offers the best value for money for fares and accommodation is Egypt, says Maria Pereira, leisure manager at Sandown Travel. This is because of the political upheaval in the country, but that applies to many countries and should not put off seasoned travellers. Morocco is also on the more affordable list, though Pereira says less experienced travellers would need to add the expense of a guide as it is not that easy to navigate the country. Travellers seeking destinations to visit before December 10 may still get good deals travelling to Thailand, Bali, Vietnam, Singapore, Indonesia, Sri Lanka, some parts of India and China. South America is affordable for travellers visiting just one country, such as Brazil or Argentina, she advises. Airfares between the countries will add significantly to the tab. People who are going to "Remainhere" can spice up their holidays by visiting a bookstore to buy a guide to their city or region. Nechama Brodie’s Inside Joburg and The Cape Town Book list many interesting and off-the-beaten-track sights the intrepid journalist has ferreted out in these cities. At Tours By Locals there are listings of knowledgeable locals who guide people around the big cities, as well as Port Elizabeth and Knysna. Or try Soul Adventures for day tours out of Joburg, including the Pilanesberg and the Ukutula Lodge lion research centre near Brits. Remainhere meals need not be boring for the designated cook. Find a good caterer, like By Choice in Centurion, which will lay on a festive meal for only R185 a head. For starters, it offers brandied chicken liver pate, smoked chicken and fennel terrine with breads and biscuits, and a selection of cheeses with preserves and roasted nuts. The main course is an apple and raisin stuffed whole turkey or chicken with cranberry sauce; oven or Weber roasted pork belly; beef pot roast with drippings and wine reduction; crunchy rosemary roasted potatoes; honey-glazed seasonal vegetables with mint rocket, roasted butternut and blue cheese salad with poached pear slices. For dessert there is a traditional trifle. For a spot of festive fun and luxury without a long-term financial commitment, why not rent a supercar for the day? Status Luxury Vehicles rents a Ferrari Spider at R17,000 a day, or a chauffeur-driven Bentley or Maserati for about R7,500 for three hours. A Lamborghini Gallardo is R19,500 a day and an Aston Martin Volante is R13,500 a day at Drive With Us. Concierge services are available for people who have limited or no time off. Services range from booking holidays and vehicle rentals to buying and wrapping gifts as well as private jewellery sales, home hair and beauty treatments, personal shopping assistants and arranging a private chef. Time, after all, is money, and time may just be your best gift to yourself.