Pension fund manager and insurance group Alexander Forbes raised its interim dividend 13% to 17c for the six months to end-September. Its fee and commission income grew 5% to R2.9bn while aftertax profit 3% grew to R416m, it reported on Monday morning. Besides its interim results statement, Alexander Forbes issued a cautionary statement saying it was involved in negotiations regarding the potential disposal of certain noncore operations outside Africa. This possibly refers to its UK-business Lane Clark & Peacock whose operating income increased by 5% to £46m and profit from operations by 3% to £6.6m, it said in its interim results statement. Bonds beat stocks over the reporting period, Alexander Forbes said. The JSE’s all share index grew 0.9% while the Bond Exchange of SA (Besa) index grew 8% over the six months. Its fund management divisions’ margins suffered due to the trend of clients moving assets within the group’s specialised investment product range to balanced portfolios and index or passive portfolios Alexander Forbes claims to be the leader in SA’s umbrella funds market with R66.8bn assets under management at September 30, 11% higher than the previous year. "Importantly, an innovative new offering was launched to our umbrella funds during this period, being in-fund preservation and in-fund living annuities. Simply explained, in-fund solutions provide members of a fund with a cost-effective solution to preserve their retirement fund savings when changing employment and also to derive an annuity income in retirement," the results statement said. Alexander Forbes’s insurance division suffered from a rise in weather-related claims, resulting in a loss ratio of 74% for the motor and household business, which is higher than the target of 72% but lower than the loss ratio of 75% the previous year. In Namibia, policy sales grew 20% and assets under management by 14%. "Nigeria continues to be a very challenging environment with a systemic shortage of foreign currency hampering business progress and business operations remain small for the time being," Alexander Forbes said. "East Africa represents a much easier trading environment than West Africa, however, there are early signs of economic difficulties as export markets for Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa-sourced goods remain under pressure."