It is difficult not to suspect the MTN board has lost interest in black economic empowerment to the point that it is now just going through the motions.The group&rsquo;s third scheme, MTN Futhi, which has just been launched, lacks most of what was enticing about the previous two. Critically, the scheme lacks the previous easy presumption that investors would inevitably score from their highly leveraged exposure to a company that shared a veritable monopoly of the South African cellphone market.For the first 20 years or so of their existence MTN and Vodacom dominated the local cellphone market. Their exorbitant pricing meant they were able to pump profit. No regulator, particularly the Independent Communications Authority of SA, had any chance of reining them in. Having exceeded, by a hefty margin, sales targets by reaching them years ahead of schedule, MTN went off in search of growth in other African and Middle East markets. It managed to set up operations in the most politically volatile countries in the region.By late 2014 its share price had reached a high of R260.BEE investors who had handed over R20 a share four years earlier were calculating the juicy profit they were going to make when the transaction unwound in 2016. Sadly, the end of 2014 turned out to be the peak of MTN&rsquo;s good fortune. The market changed from voice to data and new, unexpected competitors emerged; Icasa started to flex its muscles; and problems in its volatile foreign markets became increasingly difficult to manage.And then there was Nigeria and its attendant difficulties.Perhaps MTN grew too fast for its management capacity. Or perhaps it does not believe it has to take transformation on its home base too seriously. That would surely be a mistake. The group is heavily exposed to the allocation of spectrum and it remains exposed to licensing issues in SA. This is no time to be apathetic about empowerment.Market lore says it is better for listed companies to split their issued shares (increasing the scrip in issue) than to consolidate their issued shares. Usually &mdash; and this is a bit of generalisation &mdash; share splits are triggered when a company is doing well and its share price has soared.Naspers, more than a few market watchers might contend, is long overdue to split its shares, which trade at more than R2,000 a piece.Share consolidations tend to occur when a company is struggling, and some punters argue that the JSE should make consolidation mandatory once a share price hits bottom at 1c.On Wednesday, African Dawn Capital (Afdawn), which now focuses on venture capital initiatives, consolidated its shares on a 40-to-one basis. Based on pre-consolidation prices of 1c-2c, the shares should have traded between 40c and 80c.But its was the lower of the inferred prices that was registered, with Afdawn&rsquo;s shares dipping below 40c in early trade. This will reinforce notions that share consolidations are liable to bring downside to valuations.Afdawn&rsquo;s shares may take a while to find traction with the new strategic direction not yet generating a convincing profit. It could be a rough ride, but not as scary, it is hoped, as the former JDH (now Ecsponent), the value of which was decimated after a 100-for-one consolidation.&bull; Neels Blom edits Company Comment