Communications Minister Faith Muthambi has refused to take responsibility for the mess at the SABC, saying that the issues afflicting the public broadcaster predate her tenure. Muthambi told a parliamentary inquiry into the crisis at the SABC that she was fit for office and the Broadcasting Act prevented her from interfering in board matters. She also said she had never interfered with the editorial policies of the SABC. "The governance failure of SABC should be a collective responsibility … I inherited a dysfunctional board. I am not exonerating myself. Problems at SABC did not start when I was there, they have been there and I am happy with this process [inquiry]. The board failing to exercise its fiduciary duty, that’s not my competence … that’s why we are here [in the inquiry]." She also defended the controversial R550m deal the SABC agreed to with MultiChoice, saying the deal was necessary because the public broadcaster was facing funding challenges for its 24-hour news channel. The deal was also in preparation for digital migration, the minister said. Asked to explain the controversial appointment of Hlaudi Motsoeneng as permanent chief operating officer in 2014 and the allegations she lobbied for him, Muthambi said she had recently objected to a SABC board recommendation to appoint Motsoeneng because it would have been in contempt of court. She said while she initially supported his appointment, she backtracked after the courts clarified that the public protector’s recommendations were binding. "Nobody mentioned that recently, in the meeting in October 2016, I refused to appoint Motsoeneng as acting chief operating officer because it would have been in contempt of court following the [Supreme Court of Appeal] ruling." Motsoeneng was appointed in 2014 despite a damning report by the public protector that found he had fabricated a matric qualification, purged those he disagreed with and irregularly increased his salary from R1.5m to R2.4m in one year. The public protector recommended that he be disciplined. The recruitment process, including interviews, was not complied with and the position was never advertised. The DA approached the courts to challenge Motsoeneng’s appointment and the matter ended up in the Supreme Court of Appeal in 2015. The appellate court ruled the public protector’s reports could not be rejected for irrational reasons.