In a speech commemorating the third anniversary of Nelson Mandela’s death on Monday night, Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa decried the quality of the ANC’s incumbent leadership compared to its founding fathers. "We have to ask ourselves uncomfortable questions such as ‘Does SA today have such leaders?’. Does our movement have such leaders? Are we living up to the example that Madiba, Tambo, Sisulu and Luthuli set? Most importantly, are we living up to the expectations of our people?" Ramaphosa asked. Nelson Mandela was "was humble to a fault, never arrogant and devoid of any sense of entitlement. He listened to those he disagreed with," Ramaphosa said at an event hosted by the Nelson Mandela Foundation. "The more he disagreed with someone, the more intently he listened. He was always a unifier, never a divider. Now more than ever, we need leaders of his quality and integrity, leaders who are committed to serve only the interests of the people," Ramaphosa said. "For unless we have leaders who are united, who are credible, who are honest, who listen, who are inspirational, we will not be able to unite our movement or unite our nation." He called for the implementation of government’s National Development Plan, which appears to have been abandoned by President Jacob Zuma’s administration. "South Africans need to be committed to a common programme to achieve that vision. That vision and that programme is the . The actions it identifies for the eradication of poverty and the reduction of inequality by 2030 have largely been embraced by a broad cross section of South African society." Ramaphosa said: "For as long as the natural state of the black South African is poor and the natural state of the white South African is privileged, we will never succeed in building a non-racial society." Ramaphosa said the land should be restored to those who work it; wealth should be redistributed and there should "meaningful transfer and ownership and control over the country’s natural resources, over the means of production to the people as a whole." "For as long as the economic and social conditions of women are inferior to those of men, we will never succeed in building a non-sexist society," Ramaphosa said. South Africans should be united around a common programme to achieve Mandela’s vision of "righting the wrongs of the past".