A retreat from globalisation, reflected in Brexit and Donald Trump’s rise to president-elect of the US, are bad news for emerging markets such as SA, Citi Group warns. "Emerging markets as an asset class exist only because of globalisation," said David Lubin, global head of emerging markets economics at Citi. They relied on global trade growth, and international movement in labour and capital, he said at a media summit in London. Yet growth in global trade volumes had been lower than the growth of global GDP over the past five years, Lubin said. Restrictions on trade, migration and foreign investment would have the most adverse effect on the countries that had the most to gain from them, said Willem Buiter, Citi’s global chief economist. It was unlikely that an exception would be made for Africa in Trump’s backlash against free trade, said Niall Ferguson, senior fellow at Stanford’s Hoover Institution. "I’m struggling to see upside here for SA," Ferguson recently told Business Day. To survive "deglobalisation" and reduce reliance on foreign capital inflows, emerging markets needed a high savings rate, a structural current account surplus and a large domestic market to support GDP growth, said Lubin. "Only India ticks all these boxes. "Many emerging markets are either small or open or have a low savings ratio and will suffer," he said. Fortunately, emerging market economies had reduced external financing requirements following the "taper tantrum" of 2013, but they still remained vulnerable to monetary policy tightening in the US, Lubin said. The probability of a rate hike by the US Federal Reserve in December had risen sharply, said Jeremy Hale, Citi’s head of global macro strategy and asset allocation. The banking group had grown considerably more bullish on the dollar following the election of Trump, since his economic policies were likely to stimulate the US economy in the short to medium term, he said. The Home and Investment Act could see as much as $1.2-trillion flowing back into that country, as US companies repatriated overseas earnings. Reserve Bank governor Lesetja Kganyago last week cautioned that monetary policies in emerging markets would be challenged by significant outflows in response to the possibility of rate hikes in the US. The monetary policy committee, which kept the benchmark rate unchanged at 7% in November, retained the view that the rate hiking cycle might soon be over, Kganyago said.