Osaka &mdash; Mamelodi Sundowns lacked shrewdness and a killer instinct that can only be gained on this sort of global stage, their coach Pitso Mosimane said after his side&rsquo;s 2-0 quarterfinal defeat to Kashima Antlers at the Fifa Club World Cup.Sundowns did not just boss the first half with characteristically beautiful passing football at the Suita City Football Stadium on Sunday, they owned it.However, poor finishing and not being streetwise at top international level cost Downs, as they let Antlers off the hook, then paid for it when the revitalised J-League champions came back with a vengeance in the second half.Clinical goals from Endo Yasushi in the 62nd minute and Mu Kanazaki in the 88th &mdash; profiting from an Antlers attack that clicked into pacey, precise gear from the break &mdash; killed the game off."I must say it was a very good game. Yes, we are disappointed with the result. But if you ask me if I am unhappy with my team and the way they played &mdash; no, I&rsquo;m not unhappy," Mosimane said. "But I&rsquo;m not happy with the finishing. We should have killed the game off in the first half."But it s a learning curve in football. I think we played exactly the way we wanted to. We expected them to play the way they played, except that we didn t finish the chances. Yes, we are rookies in the tournament but that s not an excuse. We need to come back and fight again, and play at this level."Mosimane pointed to a certain step-up, a certain edge, that Downs lacked that is hard to develop in the Premier Soccer League, or even the Caf Champions League. If football were won on skill on the ball alone Sundowns would kill Antlers nine games out of 10. But football comprises all facets of ability, including technical competence, finishing and decision-making."At home when we create so many chances we ll end up scoring the goal. But at this level it s not that easy. They really close you down," the Downs coach said."The right word is to say we were not shrewd in front of goal. We were nice guys. In football you have to kill. Antlers had their chances and they killed us, and they were never nice. That was the difference between the two teams," he said."But I really enjoyed the game, the speed and the flow."I think for Africa and the Champions League we are OK with this kind of performance, with this kind of game, even away. But on the global stage it needs a little bit of shrewdness."Sundowns are left to play for fifth place in Wednesday s play-off against Jeongduk from South Korea. Marc Strydom is in Japan as a guest of Mamelodi Sundowns