A degree of madness was required to serve on the SABC’s board, given the extent to which corporate governance was flouted, former director Vusumzi Mavuso told a parliamentary inquiry. Eskom was moved deeper into junk bond territory by Fitch — something you would never guess from the utility’s press release. Eskom is now on the cusp of falling into the single B "highly speculative" debt range. Somebody needs to send a note of thanks to the government of Kuwait. Without them, SA would have been stone last among the nations in Grade 5 mathematics performance, writes Jonathan Jansen. Youthful revolt against Fidel Castro’s internment of Cuban troops returning from Angola with AIDS, his battle cry "socialism or death" along with his billboards calling those fleeing to the US scum inspired a tragic punk rock scene, Chris du Plessis found on a visit to the island nation. President Jacob Zuma used to be guided by a classic management text, Leadership Secrets of Santa Claus. The book advises "choosing your reindeer wisely … hiring tough so you can manage easy". But Zuma has appointed a recruitment agency, Saxonwold Consulting, and it has made some terrible decisions, writes Anthony Butler. The whole notion of Brexit is grounded in romance. Romance for when British gramophones, shampoos and ships were the best in the world. When Japanese cars were the cheap pretenders, writes Peter Bruce. Sibanye Gold will pay $2.2bn or about R30bn to buy American platinum and palladium producer Stillwater Mining Company, cementing its role as a major player in the platinum industry and giving it a much-wanted processing plant to deliver finished metal. Brait, plowed £1.6bn into Britain at exactly the wrong moment: the UK was on the threshold of its vote to exit the EU, an outcome that hammered the pound. "I have no regrets," says major shareholder Christo Wiese. The two cabinet ministers most brazenly in the "Zupta" camp — Mosebenzi Zwane and Des van Rooyen — also happen to have Parliament’s worst attendance records.