Tshwane mayor Solly Msimanga has intensfied efforts to get the city council out of the controversial multimillion-rand electricity smart meter contract with Peu Capital Partners. "The city is in the process of getting itself out of the Peu smart meter contract which we believe was unlawfully entered into by the previous administration to the tune of billions. In so doing‚ the city has been haemorrhaging public funds that could otherwise be used to provide services to the millions of people in Tshwane who need a stable and sustainable electricity supply‚" said Msimanga. Presenting his "100 days in office" report‚ he disclosed that Tshwane had already paid Peu R1.65bn since the contract started in 2013. The contract‚ meant to give Tshwane better credit control‚ started in October 2013. Peu was to receive 19.5% of all electricity charges as commission and the council must pay R950m to get out of the contract. Msimanga said this would be impossible with the current contract in place‚ stating that the current administration was hopeful that the courts would rule in its favour and "declare the contract invalid" so that citizens can have sustainable and affordable electricity. Business lobby group AfriBusiness has applied to the High Court in Pretoria to have the contract set aside on the grounds that it is irregular. In July the organisation succeeded in getting the court to stop the city from paying the R950m‚ which is now in an escrow account until the second part of its application — to have the contract set aside — is dealt with by the court. Msimanga said his administration had hired a team of new lawyers to extricate the city from the deal. "We went to court and what we asked for was an extension for us to submit all the relevant documents that the courts had asked for us to come out of it [the contract with Peu]. We have now been informed that the other party is willing to pursue the matter further‚" said Msimanga. The matter will be heard in February 2017, he said. In November‚ the city filed a concession affidavit with the court saying that the contract was unaffordable‚ irregular‚ irrational and should be declared unlawful and set aside.