The Public Investment Corporation (PIC), the single most powerful investor on the JSE, has joined the call by the Independent Regulatory Board for Auditors (Irba) for listed companies to rotate their auditors every 10 years. In the three months to end-September the PIC voted against the reappointment of auditors at no fewer than 11 annual general meetings.The just released results of its proxy voting during the three-month period shows the PIC voted against the reappointment of the external auditors at Naspers, Mr Price, TFG, Richemont, Mediclinic, Tongaat Hulett, Trencor, Adcorp, Tradehold and Altron. The big four audit firms &mdash; PwC, KPMG, Deloitte and EY &mdash; were all given the thumbs down where the PIC thought they were no longer independent of their clients. The cutoff for independence is 10 years, according to the PIC.This is the first time the PIC has questioned the independence of auditors and the first time it has refused to vote in favour of the reappointment of an audit firm that has been with a company for more than 10 years. Although auditor rotation is not mentioned in the PIC&rsquo;s proxy voting policy, it has evidently become a third key element of its corporate governance policy in addition to remuneration and director independence.In its 15-year-old policy, the PIC states it will consider voting against the reappointment "if it is aware of any other information, situation or relationship that reasonably places the auditor s independence into question".Its latest voting record reveals the PIC started taking a much more aggressive stance on the issue in July. This was ahead of the Irba s September announcement that it intended to implement mandatory audit firm rotation in a bid to strengthen auditors independence from clients.Bernard Agulhas, CEO of the Irba, said at that stage there would be further consultation with stakeholders aimed at working out the details of implementation. "We appreciate that both companies and their audit firms will need to make plans to adopt the change into their procurement and must ensure that implementation takes place in the most effective manner."The push from the PIC may help to reduce the resistance Agulhas is expecting.PwC, which like the other three dominant audit firms was created through the amalgamation of numerous independent audit firms, has been the auditor at Naspers for 101 years. The PIC, which holds 13% of Naspers, voted against PwC and against the appointment of Ben van der Ross to the audit committee."The PIC questions the independence of this nonexecutive director due to his long tenure on the board," said the PIC.At TFG, the PIC, which holds 11.7% of the company, questioned the independence of KPMG. The current financial director, Anthony Thunstrom, worked at KPMG for 21 years before joining TFG in 2015. The PIC also voted against the re-election of Sam Abrahams on the grounds that his independence was questionable because of his long service.At Anheuser-Busch InBev s annual general meeting in April, the PIC, which held just 0.0035%, voted against the remuneration policy on the grounds that insufficient information was provided. "There are no KPIs [key performance indicators], targets, measures and weightings," said the PIC.It also voted against granting stock options to directors.