Shanghai — Dalian Wanda Group’s action-fantasy epic Great Wall debuts in China on Friday with more at stake than just the $150m spent making it. As the most expensive film yet shot in China and the first major Chinese-American co-production, it is also a test of blockbuster demand in a cinema market that slipped from boom to bust. Prospects of the film drawing audiences across continents have also raised hopes that it will be the new model for China-Hollywood collaboration. Starring Matt Damon and directed by the celebrated Zhang Yimou of China, Great Wall got under way as a project when box-office sales were surging more than 35% a year. Now, years later, ticket sales have dropped for three months running. Some ask if this is because films are getting worse, audiences getting pickier or both. "I know what the movie would do in last year’s market, but I don’t know what it’s going to do this December," producer Peter Loehr said in Beijing last week. Loehr, who is also CEO of Wanda unit Legendary East, said that one reason for the market being flat this year was that "movies haven’t been very strong". "People are waiting for an event movie to happen. I hope we can be that," said Loehr. Great Wall is also the biggest test yet for Legendary East, Chinese subsidiary of Legendary Entertainment, which Chinese billionaire Wang Jianlin’s Wanda Group bought this year. Loehr, who moved to China 22 years ago and speaks Mandarin fluently, has produced some of the country’s first commercially successful films. Great Wall tells the story of crack troops assigned to fight off attacks by flocks of beasts called Tao Tie (TAO TEE-YAY). The creature has a voracious appetite and is a symbol of greed in ancient Chinese folklore. Special effects and battle scenes involving one of China’s most famous cultural artifacts have stoked hopes that the film will have global appeal. By Wednesday afternoon, Great Wall had presold 10.2-million tickets for Friday, the opening day, according to entertainment data provider Ent Group. That’s out of pre-sales of 13.4-million yuan for all films for that day. Damon, who’s been nominated for Academy Awards as an actor and won one as a co-writer of Good Will Hunting, is seen as an anchor from drawing a US audience. Zhang, director for the Beijing 2008 Olympics opening and closing ceremonies, along with the films Hero and House of Flying Daggers, should draw a big Chinese audience. Still, these are no guarantees, said Johnson Hu, an analyst at UOB Kay Hian. "Chinese moviegoers have become more demanding and sophisticated," said Hu. "They don’t necessarily buy the fame of big directors or stars now." He predicts Great Wall will gross about a billion yuan ($145m), the minimum to rate as a hit film in China. Co-produced by China Film Group, Le Vision Pictures, Legendary Entertainment and Universal Pictures, the film won’t be released in the US until February. That leaves more than a month of reviews in other markets to help promote the film in the US, still the world’s biggest market for movies. While movie-information website Imdb.com estimates Great Wall cost $135m to make, two people familiar with the matter said the figure was about $150m. They asked not to be named as the matter was private. A Legendary representative said it could not verify any figure. "There are a lot of expectations, as well as suspicion, over this film, over the plot, special effects and cast," said Jane Li, head of research at Beijing iMiner Data Technology, an entertainment consultancy. She expects ticket sales in China of about 500-million yuan. Beating Warcraft Warcraft, another big-budget Legendary title, became a hit in China selling 1.47-billion yuan in tickets, only to flop in the US at $47.2m. Legendary is taking fewer chances with Great Wall. The marketing budget is "significantly larger" than that of the video-game adaptation, said Loehr, but he would not give the amount. Distribution for the film in China will be massive. China Film and Wanda’s distribution arm Wuzhou together worked with 70% of China’s cinemas, said Loehr. Nomura analyst Richard Huang said Great Wall might not match its Chinese success overseas as its theme might not appeal to audiences in Europe and North America. "Grossing 2-billion yuan is possible if the film does have a good story," Huang said. "But the majority of revenue would be coming from China, because the film doesn’t look particularly appealing to western audiences." Great Wall also gives Legendary a chance to offer Hollywood flair, while receiving a higher share of revenue than it would get for a film shot in the US. At least 43% of after-tax ticket sales go to the studios and distributors. By comparison, Hollywood studios can claim only 25% of sales for films imported into the country. China will need more co-productions and big event films to maintain growth now that the market is maturing, said Vincent Fischer, a partner at Eastward Entertainment. "The truth is that 80% of Chinese box office growth from the past years comes from more movie theatres being built, and only 20% from Chinese films’ quality improvement," Fischer said. "If The Great Wall works, it may encourage more capital to be put on the table for co-productions." The film was also the first to shoot — and the first to obtain subsidies — at Wanda’s Qingdao Movie Metropolis, a sprawling complex still under construction and billed as the world’s largest film studio. Wanda’s Wang in October unveiled incentives to lure Hollywood to shoot films in the 200ha Qingdao complex. Other than Legendary, eight other studios including Lions Gate have agreed to use the facility. Loehr said that in making Great Wall he tried to steer away from the cliches of Hollywood tent poles. "There are no super heroes in this movie," Loehr said. "Everything is practical and possible at the technology of the time." Bloomberg