Osaka — Percy Tau says Mamelodi Sundowns gave a better performance than the scoreline reflected against the impressive football of Jeonbuk Hyundai Motors in the South Koreans’ 4-1 victory at the Fifa Club World Cup (CWC) on Wednesday. Sundowns bowed out of the event in sixth place, having received a lesson in efficiency and quick thinking from the Asian champions. Jeonbuk were always a step ahead of Downs. With an immense work rate they were quicker to the ball. Disappointingly, Sundowns conceded four soft goals, which was as much a factor in the one-sidedness of the defeat as the manner in which the men from Pretoria could not get their midfield and attack functioning in the first half. Coming back from the break 3-0 down, Sundowns improved markedly after Tau scored a candidate for goal of the tournament in the 48th minute. "The scoreline doesn’t give a true reflection [of our performance]. We tried our best and we did a lot of things better than the previous game," Tau said. "It was a good game. I think they hit us with the things we expected," he said. Tau, 22, was singled out for praise by his coach, Pitso Mosimane, as having the ability to compete on any stage. The forward was arguably Sundowns’ man of the match against a Jeonduk who stifled the African champions impressively, but nevertheless struggled to contain Tau. "It’s good for a player to get good remarks from a coach. And I’m still where I’m trying to learn a few things, and I want to get better," the player said. "And for me to be here at 22 is good also. "Just over a year ago I was at Witbank Spurs not thinking of this moment, because I was in the NFD [National First Division]. You can’t be in the NFD and think about the Champions League or Club World Cup. First you have to go to the PSL. "When I came back to Sundowns from loan at Spurs that’s when I thought, ‘OK, now I can live my dream’. Now it’s happening and I’m glad to be here." What Sundowns learnt from the CWC is that even for Japan and Korea, while their sides may have nowhere near the Downs players’ natural ability, the level of competition and level of organisation of the teams in their leagues must be of a high standard. As a result their players think quicker and perform at a higher intensity. Tau said he was not ready to play in a better league where his skills could be sharpened. "I’m glad with the process so far. I can still get better. And then, who knows? "I just want to get better. And for me it’s about winning. Because Sundowns has a chance to win the Club World Cup, I can come back here. "Most teams in Europe don’t come here." Sundowns left Japan without a win, having lost 2-0 to host club Kashima Antlers in the quarterfinals in their first match. Jeonduk lost 2-1 to Mexico’s Club America in their quarter. Demonstrating the high competition level that Sundowns had to face in their learning curve at the event, Antlers beat Colombia’s Atletico Nacional 3-0 in a semifinal of high intensity on Wednesday.