Markets have priced in a one-notch downgrade of SA’s ratings by S&P Global Ratings — but will be watching out for the danger of a "ratings meltdown", if there is even a hint of more than one downgrade. S&P, which is due to pronounce on SA’s ratings on Friday evening, poses the highest risk of the three major ratings agencies because it has SA just one notch above subinvestment grade ("junk status") and on negative outlook. But even if it opts for a downgrade, what will matter is whether it changes its outlook from negative to stable, indicating it is not looking at any further downgrades. Old Mutual economist Rian le Roux said the market had not priced in more than a one-notch downgrade, and the big danger was of a "meltdown" involving successive downgrades. But after Moody’s held back from taking any action on SA’s ratings last week, and Fitch changed its outlook from stable to negative, many economists now expect that S&P might grant SA another reprieve and leave the foreign currency rating where it is — for now. However, most expect that S&P will cut its local currency rating on SA, which at three notches above subinvestment grade is higher than the foreign rating, which is the one on the cusp. S&P is expected to narrow the gap it has between the two ratings, which is in contrast to Moody’s and Fitch that have the two ratings on par. The local currency rating covers rand-denominated bonds that government issues in the domestic market, about a third of which are owned by foreign investors. Downgrades to this rating could affect capital flows to SA, especially given that SA’s domestic bonds are included in a key international bond index. But in S&P’s case the local rating is still well into the investment grade. Citi economist Gina Schoeman expects SA will escape such a downgrade because it’s GDP outlook has not deteriorated significantly and is expected to improve, also the October medium-term budget was good enough. There had been progress on labour reform. Le Roux said the jump in government’s interest bill from 8% to 10% of government spending would justify S&P downgrading SA’s local currency rating. But he did not expect this to happen because since its last ratings review in June, "the politics are better", as is SA’s fiscal consolidation, which has been a big issue for S&P. Agencies had also been concerned about another wave of strikes in the second half of 2016, which had not materialised. A downgrade of SA’s foreign currency rating to subinvestment grade could trigger outflows of foreign capital, which would weigh on the rand as many institutional investors have mandates which restrict them to invest only in investment grade assets. However, Schoeman points out that two agencies need to downgrade into subinvestment grade to trigger a change to investment mandates. With Fitch and Moody’s still at investment grade, "even if S&P were to downgrade its foreign currency rating … these mandates would therefore not be triggered and any rand reaction would mostly be sentiment based". Both Fitch and Moody’s cited SA’s political instability as a key concern in their ratings reports last week. But while Moody’s rates SA’s institutions as strong, S&P has a "neutral" assessment. Le Roux said the fading of a number of economic shocks supported the case for the economy to improve in 2017. "Load shedding is long past, commodity prices have stabilised … rainfall is improving, the food inflation shock will reverse in the months to come and the labour environment has stabilised notably this year."