The South African Social Security Agency (Sassa) will not be ready to be the paymaster for social grants to nearly 17-million beneficiaries on a turnkey basis from April 1 2017 and, therefore, a payments partner will still be required, Department of Social Development director-general Zane Dangor conceded on Monday. There has been a prolonged lack of clarity about the readiness of Sassa to take over the annual payment of nearly R140bn in social grants and Dangor’s comments during a media briefing by the social services cluster of ministers shed light on the issue. The agency put out a request for information in December, asking all the banks to suggest what role they can play after April 1 while Sassa readies itself to assume full responsibility for social grants payments. The outcome of this request will determine whether the agency will still need the services of Net1 Technologies subsidiary Cash Paymaster Services (CPS) — the current contractor — after April 1 and for how long. Sassa is due to take over grant payments from CPS in 2017 but Dangor could not guarantee that its services would not be required after the transfer. Concerns have been raised by the DA and the Black Sash about Sassa’s lack of preparedness. Fears were expressed that the ground was being laid for the continued deployment of CPS even though the Constitutional Court has declared Sassa’s contract with the company invalid. The invalidity was suspended until the contract expired on March 31. Sassa has failed to meet the targets and deadlines stipulated by the Constitutional Court in preparing itself for the takeover and the agency will report to the court this week about this. "It would be foolhardy of us to rule out any participation by CPS, given the fact that we need to ensure that there will be a phase-in/phase-out process," Dangor said. The priority for the department, he stressed, was that beneficiaries continued to receive their social grants within the legal prescripts. "What is clear is that Sassa will not be the paymaster in 2017 on a turnkey basis — that is Sassa will not be a bank that is able to make payments and do other applications. This means that a payments partner will still be required. The assumption that in April 2017 there would be a Sassa card and that beneficiaries would be able to go to Sassa to get payment as if it was a bank is not going to happen." Sassa has recommended an open architecture model of grant payments utilising specialised accounts with the banks and operating through the national payments system. If adopted by the department, there would be a gap after April 1 before the new cards and data are in place. "They will have a contractual role to play," Dangor said. Sassa realised that its original plan was "overambitious".