SA is a complex piece of music that loops between the deep-rooted love of this land and consuming chaos and corruption. Its rhythm charges towards the brink of no return, then reaches out and rescues you, gently placing you on golden shores under southern skies. You lie there exhausted, warmed by the African sun. And just when you start breathing again, the chorus briskly changes, shifting from hope, relief and "Pravindication" back to threat, state capture, crime, unemployment, protest, hate and destruction. This is SA: a beautiful, terrifying, hopeful, hopeless, chaotic, confusing, magnificent, perplexing and inspiring land. In 2016, between the head-shaking, "Zumania", protests and great escapes, some inspiring people came forward with sage advice about the importance of acting in good faith. One of them is Mpumalanga attorney Richard Spoor, who continuously fights cases for the dispossessed, and has negotiated many difficult agreements. On Facebook, he offered this advice to the people leading the #FeesMustFall protests: "Don’t play with people’s lives and don’t play high-stakes all-or-nothing games. You will lose. You only ever hit the jackpot in the movies. "A lose-lose situation, where you threaten to bring the house down around you and your opponents if you don’t get what you want, is not an option unless you are suicidal." Potentially suicidal conflict at every level of society has become our lived reality. Is this inspiring? In a black swan kind of way, it is inspiring and terrifying. It compels us (or should) to confront who we are, what is happening, what is ethical, what we can do to change things, and what will happen if we don’t. While these questions press down on us in SA, I am happy I have remained. The truth is that I am so very South African; I am too South African to leave. I love my country. I was born and raised in Johannesburg, my family is South African, I have only a South African passport and no slush fund. SA is my home and this is where I will remain. I enjoy the feeling of being at home; I do not like to feel foreign. Inspiring People In addition to working as a writer and journalist, my partner and I farm with cattle in the Eastern Cape. We did not inherit the farm; we bought it nine years ago on a hefty bond. Farming is highly complex and full of anxieties — the drought, the hardships, the politics, the expenses — but I love being part of the land, I love cattle and I love the rural areas. There are many inspiring people in rural SA. Eastern Cape communal sheep farmer William Sephula is one of them. Against severe odds, he and the group of farmers with whom he farms in the Sterkspruit district produce wool of such a good quality that it achieved R92.03/kg on the national auction this year. The national average for commercial wool farmers was R77.40/kg. This calibre of farmer should be first in line in the land beneficiary process. Is he? No. He sent in all his application forms years ago and has tried to get an answer many times but nothing has ever come of it. The reason given by the Department of Rural Development and Land Reform at the Eastern Cape communal wool farmers’ 2016 congress was that the wrong information was sometimes supplied to the government, where people who were not farmers had applied for and received farms, and this was being looked into. The communal wool farmers do not regard this as a good enough answer. What would be deeply inspiring is if the land reform process was properly managed and monitored. It is critical to the country’s stability and progress. Living so remotely, I get to see what doesn’t get covered on television and I often drive long distances, which gives me time to take in the land, enjoy our good national roads and explore what’s happening. Goodwill and hope abounds in the thousands of socioeconomic and environmental sustainability projects including technology hubs that assist young entrepreneurs to grow their businesses and water projects that are working with diverse urban and rural communities to clean up the rivers and catchments. The Department of Public Works programme Working for Water is inspiring. It has freed up vast amounts of fresh water by clearing many kilometres of alien vegetation from the country’s river courses. Then there are this country’s thriving social entrepreneurial projects including solar and wind farms from which some local communities are deriving up to 25% of the profits. They then use this money to develop their communities and schools. There are music academies in which primary and high school pupils from deep rural communities are learning diverse forms of music and music theory. This focuses their energies on a positive interest, improves their maths and English skills, and helps higher numbers of rural pupils achieve university entrance passes. There are so many inspiring stories of ordinary people in this country: groups of women who rise at dawn daily in Soweto to bid on the fresh produce market, where they, collectively, buy vegetables at wholesale prices. They divide up their purchases and sell them in the townships or at taxi ranks and shopping malls to support their families and educate their children. They are part of SA’s substantial informal economy, which plays a huge role in keeping the country afloat. Many people have no idea how much economic activity there is in the informal economy and how much cash is changing hands. Informal economy marketing specialist GG Alcock says the medicinal plant, or muti, market is one example. It is worth R3bn a year, employs about 133,000 people and the medicinal plants are used by half the population in SA. Kota Industry Another example Alcock gives is the large "kota" industry, which he estimates is worth about R10bn a year. The kota is a quarter of a loaf of bread stuffed with slap chips, polony, a fried egg, atchar, tomato sauce and a cheese slice. An estimated 50,000 kota outlets are being run by township entrepreneurs in street stalls, kiosks and caravans. Its health value is worth a serious debate, but at R12 to R17 per kota, it’s a lucrative fast-food trade. So, where does this leave us? It leaves us with a range of perceptions of SA that, hopefully, inspire us to better understand one another’s lives and backgrounds, and to pull together more and share more in all sorts of ways. As an elderly doctor once told me, we are so fortunate there is still so much goodwill and dignity between so many people in SA. Without it, our country would have imploded long ago. It hasn’t, and that gives me hope as I head out to spend time with the cattle under southern skies.