SA stands on the brink of joining an international community of caring economies. For the past few weeks since the presentation of the advisory panel&rsquo;s report on a national minimum wage, the country has been debating the proposals.It is worth stating that the panel&rsquo;s key proposal is a national minimum wage of R20 per hour. We are aware that many South Africans think about monthly rather than hourly wages, but many people in the poorest employment sectors (including domestic workers and farm workers) work certain hours a day and also think in hourly rates.Furthermore, many of SA&rsquo;s most vulnerable workers work less than a full day, so an hourly wage affords protection to a much wider spectrum of workers. We also believe it is worth shifting our thinking to hourly rates as this is one of the tools employers could use to adjust to the national minimum wage.The panellists join all South Africans horrified by the high levels of working poverty in this country and concerned about the wide gap between the salaries of almost half of working people in this country and the amount calculated to be the minimum living level.This project&rsquo;s research showed that 47% of South Africans live on less than R3,500 a month. The panel hopes exposing these horrific figures will start a broader conversation about inequality and poverty wages in this country. It also hopes that setting a national minimum wage will be the starting point of a process that will bring the poorest workers closer to a life of dignity and choice. The challenge is to deal with this vulnerability while at the same time taking care of the challenge of unemployment.In June 2015, the National Economic Development and Labour Council held a conference to look at international experiences of a national minimum wage. The panel used the report from these deliberations, as well as the expertise of the International Labour Organisation, to guide its deliberations.Collective bargaining systems set wages for only a limited number of workers in SA. The June 2016 conference also showed that SA&rsquo;s system is complicated and has far more minimum wage schedules than other African countries. This is one of the cautions of the International Labour Organisation, which advises that a simpler system allows for easier compliance and monitoring.In our study of the international experience, the panel was focused on the effects of a national minimum wage on three main areas: inequality, poverty and unemployment. The international evidence revealed that an appropriate and carefully set national minimum wage is an effective tool for raising the level of wages for the most vulnerable workers and is therefore an important &mdash; but not the only &mdash; tool for tackling the high levels of wage and income inequality in the country.The big challenge was to find a number that would have a significant effect on poverty reduction while minimising the risk of increasing unemployment. The possible disemployment effects were the overarching concern fed back to the panel during its deliberations. It is worth noting that most countries across the world that introduced a national minimum wage had the same concerns. However, no country anywhere, as far as we are aware, has recently seen a significant rise in unemployment as a result of a national minimum wage.The panel has repeatedly said it would have been ideal to introduce a new policy during a period of strong economic growth. At the same time, however, the working poor don&rsquo;t have the luxury of waiting for higher levels of economic growth before progressive policies are implemented. It is worth noting the national minimum wage has not been introduced in developed countries only, but has also been used in developing countries as diverse as Vietnam, Mexico, Mali, Peru, India, Brazil, Costa Rica, the Philippines and Indonesia.Countries tend to use the ratio of minimum-to-median wages as a guide to setting the level of the national minimum wage because the other calculation, of minimum-to-mean, is distorted in countries such as SA that have high levels of income inequality. The mean wage is distorted upwards by a small proportion of very high earners. SA&rsquo;s proposed level fits well within this group of comparator countries, with our minimum-to-median level being the same as Brazil and in between India and Costa Rica.Other key findings from countries that have implemented a national minimum wage included an International Labour Organisation report that in India not receiving minimum wages increases the probability of being poor by 7% to 10%. Germany introduced a national minimum wage at an hourly rate in 2015, and evidence collected by the minimum wage commission this year showed strong job growth in low-wage industries. This was in contrast to the predictions that there would be massive job losses (some German economists forecast that up to 4-million jobs would be lost) in the former East Germany.What is notable in Germany is that, in a country whose economy is far stronger than ours, the social partners agreed on the need to freeze the national minimum wage for two years, after which it should follow the average increases of collectively agreed wages.Benefit to allIn Chile, the national minimum wage for domestic workers was 25% below the rest of the country, with a three-year period to adjust to full coverage. Seattle, in the US, introduced a minimum wage law in 2015 and recently concluded that employment increased over the past 18 months &mdash; again despite predictions it would lead to massive job losses. Mexico moved from regional minimum wages to a national minimum wage because of the complexity of the regional system, but the minimum wage there remains very low.Most Latin American countries use inflation as a guideline for adjustment, but in 2012, Costa Rica adopted a formula that combined expected inflation with a percentage of GDP per capita as a proxy for productivity.Malaysia introduced a national minimum wage in January 2013, based on an hourly rate translated into a rounded monthly rate. The first year after implementation was nonpunitive and was used for information campaigns and assistance. From January 2014, 53,133 labour inspections were conducted, with 52,365 companies having complied. This demonstrates a success rate of 99% of voluntary compliance.These are just some examples of how countries have implemented a national minimum wage and what the responses have been. It is important to note, however, that of 196 countries in the world, about 160 already have a national minimum wage in some form or another. As one of the most unequal societies in the world, with some of the highest unemployment figures globally, it is fitting that SA joins these countries in making a decisive policy intervention to alleviate poverty.The panel has been encouraged by the fact that the effect of national minimum wages across the world on unemployment have, at worst, been negligible. In some instances, this has even resulted in employment growth.It is worth repeating that while the panel notes the positive effects a national minimum wage has had across the world, the proposed rate of R20 per hour is by no means what the panel believes any worker in SA should be paid. It is merely our proposal that no worker should be paid less than this amount.We are cognisant of the need to bring the wage in line with the minimum living level, but we also believe that, at this fragile time of low growth, high levels of unemployment and a large number of people living in poverty, the most responsible approach is to start with a number as high as possible where the negative effects will be as few as possible.We think we have managed to find this number. We also think the political importance and national symbolism of this policy cannot be underestimated. The shock at the number of low earners is the start of a broader debate on how to transform our nation. We believe this intervention &ndash; one of many that are needed &ndash; joins us to a family of countries that have built more caring economies and recognise the plight of the poor and working poor.&bull; Valodia chairs the National Minimum Wage Advisory Panel.