Brian Molefe, outgoing Eskom CE, has been hailed for doing great things for the state-owned company. But his achievements were much exaggerated by himself and his colleagues.As interim CE Matshela Koko takes over, it&rsquo;s appropriate to shine a light on Eskom. Is it, as the government says, now on a sustainable footing? What does the future hold?Molefe&rsquo;s key achievement was to put an end to load shedding. Two things made this possible: a reorganisation of the maintenance schedule, which resulted in improved plant performance; and falling demand for electricity.With the 2010 "keep-the-lights-on-at-all-costs" philosophy of former public enterprises minister Malusi Gigaba, Eskom was under orders to skimp on planned maintenance. When Molefe arrived in April 2015, Eskom&rsquo;s energy availability factor had plummeted from 85% to 70% as plant breakdowns increased due to neglect.Molefe rearranged the approach to maintenance. He beefed up the schedule in low-demand periods to catch up, he deployed staff to the power stations and visited them to restore confidence. When he left Eskom plant performance had improved to 78.49% and load shedding had ended.He was helped by a surprise fall in demand for electricity from industry, mining, agriculture and transport &mdash; all at lower levels than 2007. Had demand risen in line with projections, load shedding &mdash; or the use of diesel to keep the lights on &mdash; would not have ended.But bringing an end to load shedding is where Molefe&rsquo;s success ended. In many other respects, Eskom remains a company with serious challenges and its future has become increasingly laden with risk.First, there is the problem of debt. Eskom has not yet reached the peak of its borrowing programme for Medupi and Kusile. Chief financial officer Anoj Singh says that Eskom&rsquo;s debt will hit R330bn over the next five years. There are plans to borrow about R68bn more a year until the end of that period.The more debt Eskom takes on, RMB credit analyst Elena Ilkova points out, the greater the share of its income that is consumed by interest.For debt investors, alarm bells are ringing as Eskom&rsquo;s credit ratios &mdash; which reflect its ability to generate sufficient cash to finance operations and pay interest &mdash; deteriorate.The interim results for 2017 show a sizeable jump in finance costs from R5bn in 2016 to R9.3bn for the six months ended September 30.Singh says that this is not due to rising finance costs alone. The absolute level of debt rose and part of the interest &ndash; for Medupi and Ingula &ndash; had to be brought onto the income statement because once these assets start operating, the interest can no longer be capitalised.This will be a much bigger issue in the future as Eskom&rsquo;s finance costs are about R30bn, which all at some point will have to be brought onto the income statement. This means that although Eskom shows healthy profit at present, in the coming years, this will vanish from the income statement.It does seem, though, that it is becoming more expensive for Eskom to borrow, but by exactly how much is difficult to know. RMB&rsquo;s analysis shows that over the past 12 months, local bond spreads widened by between 5 basis points and 7.5 basis points &ndash; a 6%-8% move.But as Singh points out, this is not due to Eskom credit problems alone, but also due to investor uncertainty about SA. Eskom has a diversity of funding sources, he says, and funders remain keen to engage. However, the arrangements reached with bilateral funders &ndash; such as China Development Bank &ndash; which are increasingly favoured by Eskom, are not made public.One of Molefe&rsquo;s last acts before he quit was to present this set of results. The company&rsquo;s press release highlighted two vastly improved metrics. Earnings before interest, tax, and depreciation (ebitda) was up 23% and liquidity improved 81.6% on a year ago.In a company in which debt is such a large part of the picture, the focus on ebitda is not a useful one. Credit ratings agencies were quick to make this point, with S&amp;P Global Ratings noting that after interest payments, Eskom&rsquo;s free cash flow "is worryingly small".In the past month, S&amp;P downgraded Eskom twice &mdash; once on its own merits and again when the sovereign rating changed &mdash; putting it deep in junk territory with a negative outlook. Fitch and Moody&rsquo;s kept ratings stable with a negative outlook.To get itself out of this mess, there is only one route for Eskom: sell more electricity. But sales look unlikely to rocket. In the long term, a greater number of users are likely to migrate from the grid, particularly if gas becomes more easily available. The large metros are exploring the procurement of renewable energy directly from producers.Making matters worse for Eskom is that its surplus is also set to grow enormously as units from Medupi and Kusile come on stream between now and 2022, and a nuclear plant is envisaged by 2027.This for Eskom executives is a source of frustration with the Department of Energy, which compels it to buy power from independent power producers (IPPs) at prices that it has negotiated. While buying from the IPPs is not a cost to Eskom &mdash; the price is passed through into the tariff &mdash; it wants and needs to sell its own electricity.The prospect of greater surplus capacity has prompted thinking by some analysts that Eskom should perhaps consider placing Kusile on ice for nowor at least slow down the build programme.This makes sense, says Meridian Economics director Grove Steyn.It will deal with the problem of excess capacity and confront the source of Eskom&rsquo;s debt and cash flow problems, which is its mega-build programme.Steyn warns that while most of the public attention has been on the delays and cost overruns at Medupi, most of the Kusile story is yet to unfold."Eskom&rsquo;s financial troubles are primarily related to the fact that it has to fund these enormous capital costs over a construction period of almost one-and-half decades before it is able to generate electricity from the investment and that the economy has little room to absorb further tariff increases," he says.University of Cape Town professor Anton Eberhard says that although Kusile is already 30% complete, a serious cost benefit on whether to finish it or slow it down is essential.Among immediate problems with Kusile is the coal supply that has not yet been secured. Anglo Coal, which has rights to mine the closest resource, walked away after Eskom set a condition that it be 50% black-owned.Notwithstanding this array of problems, Eskom remains determined to go ahead with a nuclear build. The request for proposals has been completed and executives say it will be put out to the market this week.While Koko stated with confidence that Eskom can build a reactor or two from its balance sheet, this has been greeted with scepticism. At the very least, it will require fresh loan guarantees from the government to do so, which the Treasury under its current leadership is unlikely to provide.As nuclear is generally regarded as credit-negative by ratings agencies, a decision to go ahead with the procurement will worsen Eskom&rsquo;s credit profile.Eskom&rsquo;s difficulties stretch back into the past and responsibility for the problems long precedes the tenure of current executives. But fixing SA&rsquo;s energy sector needs far greater realism and honesty about the true state of things than Molefe was able to muster. It also requires brave political principals &mdash; lacking at the moment in Public Enterprises Minister Lynne Brown and Energy Minister Tina Joemat-Pettersson.Eskom has not been fixed and to pretend it has will lead to a new and more complex set of problems in the future.&bull; Paton is deputy editor.