Most thought they wouldn’t last this long, but they have. The DA and its five coalition partners — the African Christian Democratic Party (ACDP), the Congress of the People, the Freedom Front Plus (FF+), the Inkatha Freedom Party and the United Democratic Movement — have celebrated 100 days since they managed to oust the ANC from power in three major metropolitan councils. The six parties in the August election managed to bring the ANC below 50% of the vote but did not secure 50%, with the EFF staying out of it, meaning they had to establish minority councils. While the EFF is not participating in the coalitions in Johannesburg, Tshwane and Nelson Mandela Bay, it did give its vote to the DA so that three DA mayors could be elected. While the parties themselves claim the first 100 days demonstrate that co-operation "works", the first three months have not been plain sailing. For a start, the first meetings of the three councils were violently disrupted by the ANC opposition in what were apparently co-ordinated actions. Some councillors were assaulted with water jugs and there were reports that in Nelson Mandela Bay gunshots were fired. Then there have been some significant blunders by the new mayors. For example, Johannesburg mayor Herman Mashaba strayed into xenophobic territory when he said that the foreigners in his city were criminals. He really should be more careful given how little it takes to trigger xenophobic violence in this country. To their credit, though, Nelson Mandela Bay mayor Athol Trollip and Tshwane mayor Solly Msimanga have variously banned first-class and business-class travel by officials and put a stop to the purchase of luxury cars for officials and politicians. Msimanga has laid the first charges of fraud and corruption against senior officials of the outgoing ANC administration based on two forensic reports commissioned by the metro. He has also moved to have an earlier ANC contract for electricity smart meters cancelled for being irregular and irrational. Court papers have been filed. All this is well and good, but some commentators note that the minority councils are fragile indeed. While some are surprised that they have survived this long, others predict they will not last a year. Consider that the EFF has only to withdraw its support for DA mayors to plunge all three into chaos. But it is worth remembering that the first 100 days also coincides with increased divisions in the ANC and with increased calls for the party to take stock of why it lost swathes of support in the August poll. The key issue appears to be that where in the past disgruntled ANC supporters simply stayed away, this time they voted for other parties in what can only be described as a sea change in ANC-voter attitudes. The ANC should well remember that when the DA first took control of Cape Town, it was through a tenuous coalition with the ACDP and the FF+. The next time round, the DA won the city outright and in 2016, its position was unassailable. With 60% of the vote, it could be described as a landslide. At the same time, the DA’s performance in Cape Town led directly to its victory in the Western Cape, which it retained in 2014. Increasingly, it appears more and more difficult to dislodge. So, while the ideological differences between the six parties, seven if the EFF is included, are considerable, should the coalitions survive at a time when the ANC is at its weakest in 22 years of democracy, then the 2019 national elections start to be very interesting indeed. Whatever happens in 2019, and if there is to be a coalition at national level, it will have to be solid and strong in order to get the country back on the right track. There is a great deal at stake for all, not least for the South African public.