Although the formal sector has added more jobs during the third quarter, after struggling to create employment for most of the year, experts are still not convinced that the positive results indicate a turnaround. This is so because the bulk of the 93,000 employees who were added during the third quarter were temporary workers hired for the local government elections in August. This once-off boost falls away in the fourth quarter, which is normally lifted by retail trade sales over Christmas and New Year. The weak economy resulted in the loss of 15,000 jobs in the first quarter and another 67,000 in the second quarter. But Jason Muscat, senior industry analyst at FNB, said although the retail sector, which has seen constrained consumer spending, could reflect growth in jobs over the fourth quarter, it was still expected to remain muted in growth when the data is published in early 2017. "The retail sector remains relatively weak. Our view is essentially for employment growth to be weak." During the third quarter the trade industry, which reflects retail, added 7,000 employees and was closely followed by the creation of 6,000 jobs in the construction and finance and business services industries, Statistics SA said on Monday. The mining sector reported 2,000 new positions following improvement in commodity prices, which have been languishing on weaker demand globally. A decrease of 16,000 year on year was recorded. The Statistics SA quarterly employment survey excludes the agricultural sector and collects information from a sample of 20,000 businesses with an annual turnover of R300,000. It differs from the quarterly labour force survey that includes the informal sector, private households, agriculture and small businesses. This sample size is expanded to 30,000. Busisiwe Radebe, economist at Nedbank, said the quarterly improvement in employment in mining was expected, given the 5.1% improvement in mining GDP during the third quarter. Employment in the third quarter fell in the transport and manufacturing industries, which each lost 3,000 workers. Muscat said the manufacturing industry was "battling to get off the ground" off weaker demand for SA goods globally. This was also reflected in the Reserve Bank’s third-quarter bulletin published last week that indicated low business confidence was hampering the sector’s improvement. "The jobs market is perpetuating the weakness in the broader economy," Muscat said. Radebe said creating jobs would still be difficult in 2017. "The economy is still pretty weak," he said. Meanwhile, the latest Manpower SA employment outlook survey indicates that employers were cautiously optimistic about hiring over the next three months into 2017. Of the participants, 13% forecast an increase in staff levels, 5% expect an increase and 80% anticipate no change in employment. After adjusting the data for seasonal variation, those who were positive dropped to 7%. Opportunities for work are expected to be strongest in electricity, gas and water supply, hospitality and weakest in construction. Western Cape employers had the strongest hiring intentions, while those in Gauteng and KwaZulu-Natal reported the weakest. Lyndy van den Barselaar, MD of Manpower SA, said because of the drought, the electricity, gas and water supply industries decreased water used by businesses and households.