Governance failure — from boards to executives — is a common problem that runs through SA’s multibillion-rand state-owned entities (SOEs), says Kenneth Brown, the outgoing chief procurement officer at the Treasury. This was symptomatic of a malfunctioning oversight system, he said. Brown, one of the architects of the Public Finance Management Act (PFMA) and the Municipal Finance Management Act, has been at the Treasury since 1998 and this week, announced he was leaving for the private sector. In a wide-ranging interview with Business Day on Wednesday, Brown detailed the highs and lows of his career as one of the pioneers at the Treasury, which has become a bulwark against graft. In a frank assessment of the state of affairs, Brown said the public protector’s State of Capture report reflected the governance failures that had become endemic in SOEs. Denel, Eskom, the Passenger Rail Agency of SA and South African Airways have been bedevilled by governance challenges in 2016. "These are multibillion-rand enterprises, their success or failure will determine whether or not our economy grows. It’s important that they function well because they gobble a lot of money. Many of our guarantees are located within these parastatals," Brown said. Brown said the deputy president had done an SOE review which spelt out the actions required. "If these were to be implemented, this would put many of the SOEs on a sound footing." Speaking about the public spat with Eskom over the Treasury’s review of the power utility’s coal supply contracts with the Gupta-owned Tegeta Resources and Energy, Brown said: "Look, these things are always tough, even under normal circumstances. "When you interact with the system wherein you want to bring efficiency, there is always resistance," he said. Eskom and the Treasury were at loggerheads over the provision of crucial information pertaining to the coal contract. "In hindsight, we could have addressed the Eskom thing rather differently. But from August, after the spat, we got excellent support from Eskom." Brown was critical of the country’s oversight system and said it was not working. "The PFMA empowers the Treasury and there is a whole section on governance, but people are violating the law. "Now, if the law is being violated the way it has been — where’s Parliament in all this? You need legislative oversight, failing which you are going to have a problem," he said. Brown was born on February 4 1962 in Alexandra township to migrant labourers from Mpumalanga and the North West. "In those days, Alex was mixed — there were coloured, Indians and Chinese." The second-born of six children, one of his brothers is still living in Alexandra and an uncle died in the township. As the apartheid state started enforcing the Group Areas Act, his family was instructed to leave the township in 1979, his matric year. Recruitment Drive He obtained a teaching diploma in Kimberley and spent the early 1990s teaching in the Western Cape, while juggling part-time economics studies at the University of the Western Cape. It was during this time that a lecturer encouraged Brown to go to a Treasury official Andre Roux’s recruitment drives. "Andre used to go around campuses, talking about this thing called the Treasury." Roux is now co-head of fixed income at Investec Asset Management. The two hit it off, and Brown was appointed a deputy director-general under Trevor Manuel. "Fortunately for me, I started at the time when we were establishing the finance ministry. In the finance ministry then, you had the department that was known as state expenditure and the department of finance. "We were in the department of finance. On my first day, Andre came around 9am and said, ‘We’re just going to a meeting.’ So I went with him to the 26th floor. "We get into the meeting room and the meeting is chaired by Trevor Manuel. I sit next to Maria Ramos and Andre sits across the table. "People were talking inflation and this and that … 20 minutes in, Maria elbowed me and said, ‘Kenneth, don’t worry they just want to impress you.’ That was a defining moment for me." It set the tone for his time at the Treasury and brought home the fact he had "entered into an environment where there was no place for mediocrity". He moved on to become a deputy director-general for intergovernmental relations. Barely five months in, he was offered a scholarship to study in the US. He spent about 21 months there, studying towards a master of science degree in public policy. Three months after coming home, he was appointed director of public policy. It was in that position that he became one of the drafters of the PFMA, which laid the foundation for financial management in SA. He became the chief procurement officer in February 2013 and will start his new job at Standard Bank in February 2017. Schalk Human will hold the fort until Brown’s replacement is recruited.