Music and cultural festivals are a growing global phenomenon and an important economic driver for many towns, cities and countries. Tourism Research in Economic Environs and Society, a research unit at North West University, estimates there are 600 cultural festivals in SA, making up 10%–15% of the creative economy. The creative economy includes all cultural and creative industries. It contributes R90.5bn (2.9%) to SA’s GDP and creates 562,000 jobs, which is equal to mining. The Mzansi Golden Economy strategy was launched in 2011 to sustain the arts and culture industry after the 2010 Soccer World Cup caused companies to shift budget into soccer. Support from the Department of Arts and Culture, together with changes in technology, media and music, triggered a massive shift towards music festivals. "The Mzansi Golden Economy strategy put in place a series of economic interventions that were aimed at broadly catalysing growth in the sector," says Department of Arts and Culture deputy director-general Monica Newton. "Critically, we started to create financial instruments that would look at cultural events, touring ventures and public art on the broadest possible scale. "And that has opened up the field to us to begin to support live culture in public spaces …" The Business and Arts SA Artstrack 7 report indicates 92% of the adult population is interested in music, 72% passionate about it and 51% attends, on average, 2.7 festivals per year. Music festivals offer a unique and life-enhancing experience at an affordable price. This creates jobs, generates tax revenue, and benefits hotels, travel, media and tourist businesses. The Cape Town International Jazz Festival, now in its 18th year, has an attendance of 34,000 and an impact of R685m on national GDP. Joy of Jazz, now in its 20th year, attracts 22,000 people and has an impact of R600m on Gauteng’s GDP. The National Arts Festival has a R400m impact on the Eastern Cape, while a smaller festival such as Buyel’Ekhaya in Buffalo City attracts a spend of R25.8m. Festivals such as these contribute R9bn-R12bn to GDP, and this is growing at 10% a year. These impressive statistics prompted the Department of Arts and Culture to fund the South African Cultural Observatory in 2015. It is a national research centre for the economic and social value of the arts, culture and heritage sectors and is testing a valuation framework for publicly funded events like music festivals. Touring circuits have improved festivals by providing economies of scale for musicians, promoters and festival directors. MTN Bushfire in Swaziland has become the centre of the Southern African Music Festival Circuit, combining festival experiences with tour packages, linking the cultural hubs of Johannesburg, Durban, Maputo, Reunion, Swaziland and Harare throughout Africa Month in May. Bushfire is a major contributor to the Swazi economy, with an impact of R120m annually. The National Afrikaans Theatre Initiative, through the Festivals Forum, provides a circuit for festivals including the Klein Karoo National Arts Festival in Oudtshoorn (impact R105m), Innibos in Nelspruit (R109m), Woordfees in Stellenbosch, Suidoosterfees in Cape Town, Aardklop in Potchefstroom (R70m) and Free Festival in Bloemfontein. Free Festival attracts 180,000 people annually and has an estimated impact of R60m. It is at the centre of a national festival route that links with Grahamstown and Nelspruit in July. "Bloemfontein is developing into a really interesting creative hub," says Free Festival director Ricardo Peech. "There is a high rate of support for the arts and a great support network for artists in Bloemfontein. In terms of creative industries, it is a growing economy." The City of Durban has also enjoyed increased revenue and exposure for the city through music festivals. Distinct KwaZulu-Natal music styles such as isicathamiya, maskanda and ngoma add to the attraction. The Durban International Jazz Experience, Fact Durban Rocks, Essence festival and Woza Durban attract, on average, 15,000 people and have an impact of about R30m. Festivals are a great opportunity for sponsors to engage with a niche and loyal audience. Brands can stay in touch with their audiences throughout the year using clever social or digital media campaigns, while tickets and accommodation are being booked and excitement for the event builds. The on-site activation opportunities are immense. Festival sponsorship is worth about R350m annually in SA and is growing. Standard Bank enjoys massive brand equity through its long-term and growing sponsorship of jazz events, supporting events in Ghana, Malawi, Mauritius and Zambia. Superbalist fashion label has picked up title sponsorship of Rocking the Daisies, and Jeep is title sponsor of Morejazz Maputo. The annual Samsung Rage festival on the north coast of KwaZulu-Natal has grown in its 12 years to an attendance of 20,000 people and an impact of R150m. Rage is a pioneer in the youth market and is at the forefront of some of the changes in media and technology that are spearheading the global growth in the festival sector. "The complexity of events is accelerating at a rapid rate," says event organiser Greg Walsh, of G&G promotions. He says on-site technology includes live to social media, near field communication, radio frequency identification and cashless offerings "as well as the latest technical innovations in lighting, sound and special effects. It all creates growth." In 2016 Rocking the Daisies, held in Darling, increased its online content output five times. Through social media it engaged with fans 24/7 to build online advocacy and conversation. As a result, the festival generated five times the amount of fan engagement and a three-fold increase of advert value equivalent for its sponsors compared with 2015. The growth in festivals over the past 20 years has rendered the night-clubbing scene almost extinct, with live music venues in danger of going the same way. Platforms for live music have expanded into other entertainment and lifestyle spaces, such as night markets, pop-up shops and shows and home gigs. The revival of social clubs and cultural centres creates spaces for bringing audiences and entertainers together. Business and Arts SA award winner Concerts SA administers the disbursement of Norwegian funding to a selection of small live music venues across the country. Its latest study on live music venues, It Starts With a Heartbeat, illustrates that live music performance spaces play a significant role in developing and nurturing young emerging talent and artistic innovation. In Swaziland, the Bushfire festival grew out of the House of Fire venue and in Johannesburg, the Africa Day Festival grew out of the Bassline.