Civil action organisation Outa has expressed shock and outrage at what it calls the government’s "extreme cynicism and profligacy" in its approach to the court proceedings on SA’s nuclear plans in Cape Town. The case‚ brought by Earth Life Africa (ELA) and the South African Faith Communities Environment Institute (Safcei)‚ related to the possible unlawfulness of the ministerial determination underpinning the procurement of 9.6GW of nuclear energy, at an estimated cost of R1-trillion, among other things. According to Outa‚ the case was postponed on Tuesday with the Department of Energy paying the wasted legal costs of the applicants‚ estimated by Outa to be in the range of R5m to R10m. The reason for the postponement was a fresh ministerial determination issued by the energy minister‚ seeking to cure the defects of the original determination of December 2013‚ by making Eskom the procurer of the new nuclear energy build programme as opposed to the Department of Energy. This was handed into the court on the morning of the trial without notice‚ even though the minister had signed it more than a week ago‚ Outa said. "Eskom’s actions is an expression of disrespect for the democratic and legal process"‚ said Ted Blom‚ Outa’s portfolio director of energy. "A strong chance existed that the court would have found the original determination to be illegal and set aside for a number of reasons‚ one being the lack of a meaningful public consultation processes. "This time around‚ the government and Eskom have chosen to wilfully deny the public a chance to comment on the biggest procurement decision likely ever to be made in the country’s history. The government "is simply manipulating the legal process to ensure it can commence its nuclear energy procurement process before the High Court has an opportunity to scrutinise its shady dealings", Outa chairperson Wayne Duvenage said. "What makes matters worse‚ is the fact that an updated integrated resource plan (IRP) for electricity is currently under way and all indications point to no need for any nuclear in SA’s energy mix." Outa is suspicious that despite the ministerial advisory commission on energy’s recommendation to the minister of energy‚ that she should publish the IRP as the lowest cost "base case" path for the country‚ this was not heeded in the public presentations. "Had they done so‚ nuclear energy options would have been excluded from SA’s future energy mix entirely. Ignoring her own experts was bad enough‚" said Duvenage‚ "but there is no way she can claim that she can legitimately make a determination on a six-year-old, 2010 IRP‚ for which it is generally accepted that the conditions have fundamentally changed." The court case is expected to proceed in February by which time Eskom’s procurement process will be well into its initial phases. Duvenage said Outa was "assessing its legal options and other avenues on this matter". TMG Digital