Innovation is critical in a knowledge economy &mdash; driving growth, new products and new methods of delivering value to customers. Every leader should be cultivating these five behaviours to maximize innovative thinking.1. Manage risk: Innovative leaders are bold when it comes to experimenting with new approaches. When risks do present themselves, they develop plans to minimize the risk and identify where action is needed most.2. Demonstrate curiosity: Innovative leaders will actively take the initiative to learn new information, which demonstrates engagement and loyalty to company goals. Keeping their skills and knowledge current gives them the competitive edge they need to lead effectively, and it also stimulates new ways of thinking in other workers.3. Lead courageously: Innovative leaders lead with confidence and authority. They turn tough circumstances into prime opportunities to demonstrate their decisive capabilities and take responsibility for difficult decision making. These leaders are sure to engage and maintain audience attention in high-stakes meetings and discussions, and they do not avoid conflicts and differences of opinion.4. Seize opportunities: Innovative leaders are proactive and take ownership of success. They push for personal performance and are able to work independently for extended periods of time with minimal support. They are also able to change directions quickly to take advantage of new opportunities when they come up.5. Maintain a strategic business perspective: Lastly, our research found that innovative leaders score higher when it comes to maintaining a strategic business perspective. They thoroughly understand the business, the marketplace and the customer base, and they are adept at identifying strategic opportunities or threats for the business. They have an ability to articulate convincing approaches to moving their business forward.(Adapted from The 5 Skills That Innovative Leaders Have in Common at HBR.org)&bull; Harvard Business Review