Almost 40 years since independence, land reform is still at the heart of Zimbabwe’s political and economic challenges. But perhaps more so than with any other issue in Zimbabwe, the approach of government and the international community has been one of inertia. Governments throughout the world have found it hard to devise economically successful land-tenure models that incorporate landless populations meaningfully into food and cash crop production. Zimbabwe is no exception. In the old Southern Rhodesia, the development of the settler agricultural economy was based on widespread expropriation of land and forced removal of native populations to reserves. Settler populations maintained access to the best land in the colony, where land holdings were based on colour and ethnicity. Southern Rhodesia’s Land Apportionment Act of 1930 reserved 50% of land in the country for white settlers, 30% for Africans, and 20% for commercial companies and the colonial government. This set the stage for future President Robert Mugabe’s childhood and the second Chimurenga. The end of settler colonialism and the coming of majority rule in Zimbabwe did not change skewed land ownership patterns — despite Mugabe coming to power largely on the promise of redistributing land to the rural poor. Independence and commercial agriculture Under the Lancaster House agreement, Mugabe’s government could acquire land only on a "willing seller, willing buyer, fair market" basis for the first 10 years of independence. This undoubtedly stalled land reform. Only about 50,000 households were settled in the first decade of independence. Mugabe blamed the slow pace of reform on Britain, which cancelled its promised funding of the programme amid allegations that Mugabe was corruptly awarding tracts of land to cabinet ministers and party loyalists. The slow pace of land reform continued after the expiry of the Lancaster House agreement. This was partly due to subsequent land acts that protected commercial agricultural production. These continued Lancaster House’s principles of willing seller, willing buyer and fair market compensation, so protecting settler commercial agricultural production. But the government was also constrained by the need to maintain the commercial agricultural sector, its ties to the local economy, and its important export earnings. To a government consolidating its power, maintaining the status quo and keeping export earnings were more important than challenging largely white commercial farming interests. In the first decade after independence, agriculture provided 45% of exports, 60% of the raw materials used by Zimbabwean industry and 70% of employment. It was also important to maintain good relations and attract foreign investment, notably from the UK, which maintained strong ties with the settler agricultural sector. Difficulty in reforming commercial sector When Mugabe came to power in 1980, his government inherited an agricultural sector that relied on subsidies and government support. Through continued government intervention in 1980-85, the smallholder sector developed rapidly, providing maize and cotton largely for local use. In 1986, the government decided to create incentives for export production, including foreign exchange and marketing subsidies, making commercial production more profitable. As a result, many large-scale and smallholder farmers moved to the commercial production of cash crops such as tobacco and maize for export. But by 1990, the government could no longer sustain subsidies. Instead it embarked on a programme of deregulation. The weakening Zimbabwe dollar, coupled with increases in the prices of fertilizer, feed, and transport, rendered commercial farming expensive. As a consequence, large-scale commercial farming of more profitable crops such as tobacco rose. Tobacco became the single largest earner of foreign exchange. But small-scale farmers generally did not benefit from rising tobacco production. They did not enjoy economies of scale. They also lacked access to capital, markets, technology, and extension services. So small-scale farmers focused on other less profitable crops, including maize, cotton, and groundnuts. Still, in the first two decades after independence, small-scale and resettlement farmers could not compete with large-scale farmers without continued subsidies and increased market access. There were other constraints. Investor confidence is largely based on the maintenance of the status quo of the agricultural sector in countries such as Zimbabwe. Before the end of the 1990s the Zimbabwe government did not want to send mixed signals to the investment community and jeopardise its investment profile or potential. As such, the government was reluctant to embark on large-scale subsidy and asset nationalisation schemes to develop small-scale commercial agriculture. In the absence of donor funding to develop training, extension services, credit facilities, and market access, the Harare government had few economic options available to incorporate smallholders into the agricultural sector without scaring away much needed capital. Fast track to land reform As internal discontent increased, and external funding for land reform dried up, Mugabe threatened to expropriate white-owned farms without compensation. In 1997, the government published a list of 1,471 farms to be expropriated and resettled. It demanded that the UK provide funding for the endeavour. The UK did not heed the call. Corruption, coupled with the gazetting of white-owned farms, threatened remaining donor funding. In 1999, the IMF suspended funding for Zimbabwe. As the 1990s drew to a close, persistent drought, a failed structural adjustment programme, rampant inflation, and lack of foreign exchange created a challenging environment for the Zimbabwean government and population. Hungry for land, Zanu-PF supporters invaded white-owned farms with the government’s approval in early 2000. This took place before parliament passed a bill changing the constitution to legalise expropriation of white-owned farms without compensation. Fast-tracking land reform for resettlement became policy. As opposition movements grew, Zanu-PF became increasingly willing to adopt programmes aimed at fast-tracking land reform for landless and discontented voters. Violence and continued government threats left the majority of white farmers with little choice but to abandon their land or discontinue cultivation. By 2004, the government-controlled newspaper said farmers used only a quarter of arable land in the country that season. Agricultural production plummeted and the country went from a net food exporter to a net importer. Zimbabwe continues to face extreme food shortages which have been worsened by drought. Today, about 5-million of the country’s population of 14-million are estimated to be in need of food aid. Four decades later it is still about land It undoubtedly remains challenging to integrate local populations meaningfully into the agricultural sector as producers of food and cash crops. This is partly a result of harsh economic realities, including economies of scale and market access. But, as can be seen throughout Zimbabwe, newly settled populations thrive when they are given training and investment that supports the production of food and cash crops. This is the policy that needs Zimbabwean and international support post-Mugabe to address the country’s rural hunger, and perhaps employment, challenges. This is at the heart of the second Chimurenga and Mugabe’s promise almost 40 years ago to Zimbabweans. • Peters is a director and assistant professor of measurement and evaluation at the School of Professional and Extended Studies at American University • This article was first published in The Conversation