Another small demonstration of anger from Kaizer Chiefs fans‚ plus a few plastic bottles lobbed at Steve Komphela‚ marked the conclusion of another frustrating game on Tuesday night for the country’s best supported club. Fans have deserted Chiefs in droves now that they have gone six matches in a row without a win‚ being held to a 1-1 draw at home at FNB Stadium by high-flying Cape Town City. Amakhosi were down to 10 men for a full hour of the game. Komphela was again abused as he left the pitch. The coach chose his words carefully after the game as reporters asked him about the "unruly fans". "I have to be careful how I answer when you use the word unruly. I don’t want it reported I used that word about the supporters‚" he said first. "It’s very important to accept the realities of modern life and I’m sure I’m not the first person there has been some submissions made about‚ not only in sports but politics too. "But all I can do is tell you I have a job to do‚ I have a responsibility. If you look at the match against Cape Town City and listen to what Eric Tinkler said afterwards‚ and you go back to [the game before that] against SuperSport and listen to what Stuart Baxter had to say‚ it’s the same story. "Both were draws. But we should have won both matches‚" Komphela insisted. Komphela appears to have a short memory‚ because Baxter in fact bemoaned the fact that SuperSport could not beat Chiefs in a 1-1 draw despite having most of the game‚ and not the other way round. On Tuesday‚ Chiefs took an early lead and had two gilt-edged chances after Michelle Katsvairo’s goal to extend their lead and be comfortably ahead at half-time. But in the end‚ down to 10 men after Sibusiso Khumalo’s sending off‚ they were defending furiously to hang onto just the one point. "I can hear what’s happening [among the fans] but I have to be strong because I have a job to do," Komphela said, adding that he still had the backing of the Motaung family. "At Naturena there is always support. They understand the challenge we are going through because this club is all about results." Club football manager Bobby Motaung told supporters in Mooi River at the weekend‚ where former Chiefs midfielder Petrus "Ten-Ten" Nzimande was buried‚ that supporters must be patient and Komphela be allowed the same time as predecessors Baxter and Muhsin Ertugral were afforded. But with their recent poor run, patience is extremely thin and time is running out. The four games Chiefs have won this season have been against Highlands Park (1-0), Maritzburg United (2-0), Free State Stars (2-0) and Ajax Cape Town (2-0). Of those, Free State, Ajax and Highlands occupy the bottom three places on the league table. At the same time just three other teams — Chippa United, Highlands and Free State — are in the same boat as Chiefs, having failed to register a win in their last five matches. Komphela may have the support of the Motaung family, though it is doubtful he has the backing of the countrywide Amakhosi family. TMG Sport