The Department of Higher Education and Training has identified eight institutions to pilot the Ikusasa (the future) student financial aid programme from next year. The financial aid programme, signed off by the Cabinet in November, is designed to address the funding needs of poor and "missing middle" students — the main driver of the #FeesMustFall protests. "Missing middle" students are those deemed to be from families too wealthy to receive funding from the government’s loan and bursary scheme, the National Student Financial Aid Scheme (NSFAS), and too poor to pay their own fees. The institutions earmarked for the Ikusasa pilot include the University of Venda, Walter Sisulu University, the University of the Witwatersrand, the University of Cape Town, the University of Pretoria, Tshwane University of Technology, the University of KwaZulu-Natal and ORBIT College. Department spokesman Madikwe Mabotha said on Monday the institutions selected enrolled the majority of poor and "missing middle" students. "They have also been selected because they offer several programmes in the scarce skills category," he said. In a reply to a Parliamentary question last week, Higher Education and Training Minister Blade Nzimande said the ministerial task team, which examined the funding of poor and "missing middle" students, set a target of R200m for about 2,000 students. They are studying towards scarce-skills professions including medicine, pharmacology, actuarial sciences, engineering and chartered accountancy; and artisan courses such as welding and plumbing. Funding will also be available to students enrolled in programmes in the humanities, social and general sciences. Students funded in the pilot would be supported for the duration of their studies. Department director-general Gwebinkundla Qonde explained in an article published last week that Ikusasa was a hybrid funding model structured with a mix of grants, loans and effective family contributions. Based on a unique means test matrix, students from very poor backgrounds will receive fully subsidised funding, while students from middle-income families will receive funding split between loans, grants and family contributions, with a greater portion covered by a grant during their first and second year of study. The goal of the pilot is to test aspects of the model and refine it. The final report is expected to be completed in June next year.