EFF MP Sam Matiase was kicked out of the National Assembly on Thursday for referring to a Freedom Front Plus MP as "this white racist". During a heated debate on the land-reform issue, Matiase interrupted Freedom Front Plus MP Pieter Groenewald and asked him to provide proof "that white people had purchased the land". Groenewald responded by saying that the question was "stupid". This sparked numerous points of order from MPs, with some arguing that referring to a question as "stupid" had racial overtones. "He is a white racist … this Parliament is not a Vlakplaas of Groenewald," said Matiase. Deputy speaker Lechesa Tsenoli promptly ordered the EFF MP to withdraw his remarks and to leave the house. Before being escorted out of the house by the sergeant-at-arms, Matiase hit back saying "the problem is that you [Tsenoli] grew up in an era when he [Groenewald] was your baas". The EFF have long been calling for expropriation of land without compensation for equitable redistribution. The party has called on its members to occupy vacant land. EFF leader Julius Malema was recently charged for contravening the controversial Riotous Assemblies Act after inciting party members to occupy any vacant land they came across. Land is a highly emotive issue in SA, where most of it remains in white hands over two decades after the end of apartheid. Just more than 10% of land in white ownership has been transferred to black owners since the end of apartheid, which is only a third of the target set by the ANC government. President Jacob Zuma and the ANC have maintained that land distribution has to take place in the framework of the law. Earlier in 2016, Parliament passed the Expropriation Bill, which will pave the way for government to pay for land at a value determined by the valuer-general and then expropriate it for the "public interest". Implementation of the legislation will effectively end the willing-buyer, willing-seller approach. The government says this will speed up land reform. Rural Development and Land Reform Minister Gugile Nkwinti said in Parliament on Thursday that while the EFF was right to raise the issue of land, the matter had to be addressed within the confines of the Constitution. "I am here to appeal to members not to use the challenge of land to ignite anger and emotions for anarchy in our communities," said Nkwinti. Much land had been transferred to black people and the government was trying by all means to make sure the land remained productive.