First Rand Bank says an order indicating that ministers cannot intervene in the relationship between banks and their clients would encourage public officials to act according to the law. In an affidavit supporting Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan’s application for such an order in relation to the closure of the Gupta family bank accounts, First Rand CEO Johan Burger said he had not met an interministerial committee that was headed by Mineral Resources Minister Mosebenzi Zwane because there was uncertainty over the legality of the committee at the time. Burger said in the affidavit it was "in the public interest" to grant the order. The politically connected Gupta family sought intervention by Gordhan when the four big banks shut the family company accounts. The family is friends with as well as benefactors to President Jacob Zuma. Zuma recently said in Parliament that the simultaneous closure of the Gupta accounts by the banks was "suspicious". There has been pressure on the family since the closure of their bank accounts, which intensified after the release of former public protector Thuli Madonsela’s report on state capture in which serious allegations were levelled against them. Cabinet had established the contentious interministerial committee headed by Zwane, which included Gordhan, to look into the matter. First Rand Bank’s closure of the Guptas’ accounts had been due to "associated reputational and business risks", Burger said. He provided details of repeated requests by the interministerial committee for a meeting with him. He said in the affidavit that this was even after legal opinion by junior and senior counsel indicated that such a meeting would be unlawful. Burger received the first invitation to meet the committee in April. He asked for further information, which the committee acting secretary was unable to provide. He therefore declined the invitation. Burger said he had also requested that all committee members be present at a second requested meeting but was not given such an assurance. He therefore declined the invitation. Burger denied that FNB, a division of First Rand Bank, had acted unlawfully in closing the Gupta accounts. With Franny Rabkin