When Henry Ford produced the Model T there was only one model. And it only came in black. There was no options list, no derivatives to choose from. There was no sporty version and definitely no fake off-road model. Today the motoring world is very different, and the concept of affordable motoring is not as simple as it was in Ford’s day. Take the Ford Fiesta for example. Originally a budget-friendly offering, it was all about being an A-to-B car until the XR2 came along in international markets. That model survived a couple of generations before the superb go-kart came along that was the Fiesta ST. In line with Ford’s performance brand, the ST name stuck but now the company has revealed the latest generation of the Fiesta and suddenly there is a ST-Line model, a luxury Vignale version and even a pseudo off-road derivative in the form of the Active. The company says it is the most comprehensive line-up ever for its little Fiesta, which is also promising even more connectivity and new driver assistance systems. "It’s because we share our customers’ passion for Fiesta that we’ve been able to take this iconic small car’s lovable, fun and sporty-to-drive character to the next level, with a greater choice of models than ever and each with a distinctive personality," says Jim Farley, executive vice-president and president, Europe Middle East and Africa, Ford Motor Company. "We now have a Fiesta option for every driver, including the luxurious Fiesta Vignale and the Fiesta Active crossover, with advanced technologies and features that small-car customers could only have dreamed of just a few years ago." A spokesman for Ford SA was unable to confirm exactly which models will arrive in SA or when they will reach our shores, which leaves us wondering not only when the new Fiesta will be in showrooms, but also the new EcoSport, revealed recently, and the new 2017 Mustang, which gets a number of upgrades including a new 10-speed transmission. We suspect that the Vignale is unlikely to come here, with the company not having brought Vignale versions of other models, but the Active crossover seems like a decent fit for our market, The Fiesta Active has a slightly higher ride height than the standard versions, along with essentials for anyone who wants to drive in the city but look as though they are heading on an off-road adventure. The ST-Line was introduced in Europe in the outgoing generation, but did not come to SA. If the new one does come then do not expect any power hikes over regular versions. Instead it is mostly about cosmetics, with a body kit, sports seats and unique alloy wheels. It does, however, get sports suspension. Regular models will include trim levels such as Trend and the Titanium version you see here. Then there is the tech, which elevates the Fiesta way beyond its current level. Depending on the model and what Ford SA chooses to include without overpricing the car, we could see Active Park Assist, a self-parking system. There could also be Pre-Collision Assist with Pedestrian Detection, Cross Traffic Alert for when you are reversing in a car park and even Traffic Sign Recognition. Other items in the 15 new assistance features for the Fiesta include blind spot monitoring, lane keeping assistance and adaptive cruise control. It all sounds great, but it also sounds like it could significantly bump up the price and that is before you even factor in any possible exchange rate crises. The company’s new Sync 3 touchscreen infotainment system will also be available as smaller cars become more connected than ever, but Ford is going even more luxury when it comes to small car audio. It has announced the availability of a Bang and Olufsen sound system for the Fiesta. This will include 10 speakers, a sub-woofer in the boot, an amplifier producing 675W and a digital signal processor with surround sound generation. I should remind you we are talking about a Fiesta, not a luxury German model. While design changes are more evolutionary than revolutionary, there are some big upgrades in terms of quality and refinement. The firm is claiming a 7% improvement in interior road noise thanks to improved soundproofing. A contributing factor is also a decrease in the gaps between panels, not least of all is a massive 30% smaller gap between the roof and the top of the tailgate. The new model has also grown, with 71mm added to its length and 12mm to its width. This translates into claims of 16mm more knee room for those in the back. It also means more storage space. Finally there are the engines. Almost all of the powerplants have been tinkered with in some way or other, including drivetrain changes such as a new six-speed manual ’box for the 1.0l EcoBoost. That engine is also the basis for the new 1.1l motor (really, what’s the point?) which replaces the 1.25l. All models now get auto stop-start technology and some even get Active Shutter Grilles, which is very BMW. It does all sound like the new Fiesta will get a significant jump over its main rival, the Volkswagen Polo. That is until Volkswagen reveals the new Polo in 2017.