If the result of the World Sports Betting Green Point Stakes is any guide, the Cape season’s two big races, the L’Ormarins Queen’s Plate and R5m Sun Met, could be dominated by just two horses. Less than half a length separated horse-of-the-year Legal Eagle and year-younger Marinaresco in last Saturday’s Kenilworth race. It could be the first of two intriguing clashes. Legal Eagle was given a masterly ride by Anton Marcus who kept Sean Tarry’s champion up to his work to hold off Grant van Niekerk on Marinaresco. Marinaresco’s second in the Durban July and victory in the Champions Cup make him SA’s highest-rated four-year-old. If you had to bet your house on the outcome, you would have to side with Marcus to beat Van Niekerk in any finish so a second Queen’s Plate triumph may well be on the cards for Tarry’s five-year-old. But the Sun Met might just be a different story. The race is 400m further than the Queen’s Plate and Marinaresco’s supporters will point to the colt’s excellent finishing run in the 2,200m Durban July. Both horses are trained by two people, Tarry and Candice Bass-Robinson, who have not been in racing’s premier league for long. Yes, Tarry is a champion trainer but looks as if he could still play 90 minutes of football while Bass-Robinson is in her first season as a trainer after the retirement of her famous father, Mike Bass. So what of the horses trailing in the wake of Legal Eagle and Marinaresco in the Green Point? The suspicion is that they will be left to pick up the pieces. Although Captain America has enjoyed an excellent career in the care of trainer Brett Crawford, the HF Oppenheimer Horse Chestnut Stakes winner looked as if he was in a different race as he trailed in four lengths behind Marinaresco. Last season’s Gauteng Triple Crown winner, Abashiri, was fifth and — while Michael Azzie’s four-year-old may have needed the outing — no punters will be rushing to back the Turffontein hero for the Queen’s Plate or Met. Anthony Delpech, who rode Abashiri in the Green Point, had a blank day at Kenilworth but was quickly back among the winners at Scottsville on Sunday. Delpech will be in action at Tuesday night’s meeting at Turffontein and he will partner a choicely bred newcomer by Canford Cliffs for Mike de Kock in the opener. Canford Cliffs enjoyed a magnificent career for Richard Hannon’s stable and his wins included the Irish 2,000 Guineas, St James Palace Stakes at Ascot and Sussex Stakes at Goodwood. De Kock’s juvenile filly is opposed by a number of well-bred first-timers including a daughter of What A Winter from the stable of Weiho Marwing and a daughter of Philanthropist from the yard of Corne Spies. Delpech rides Nikki in the fifth race but the filly has her limitations and it could pay to go for John Vos’s filly, Samarra, who is sure to start at attractive odds. Others to consider in this 1,400m contest are Last Chirp, Jin-Go-Lo-Ba and Seventh Heart. Jockey Andrew Fortune booted home three winners at Turffontein last Saturday and he partners Tommy Waterdevil for trainer Erico Verdonese in the final leg of the Pick 6. Runners that warrant inclusion in perms are Starcraft Prince, Dolphin, Penultimate and Vaal maiden winner, Joey Piper.