After a year of prevarication on the publishing of the Integrated Resource Plan (IRP), the government has given the public an opportunity to interrogate its thinking on the technologies it says will meet SA’s electricity needs. The IRP is, in theory, intended to define our optimal energy choices over the medium- to long-term — in this case until 2050. This road map is critical because, in planning the country’s energy path, the IRP ought to ensure energy affordability to its citizens, many of whom still do not have access to what many of us take for granted. Almost everyone’s first question on hearing of its release was: "Is there nuclear in it?" The answer was an unequivocal yes — and even more than the 9.6GW originally anticipated in the IRP 2010. It is at this point that the waters divide along a number of ideological fault lines. The IRP process is supposed to be a rational tool that balances the country’s future energy needs with sustainability and affordability. The IRP "engine" processes a whole rack of input assumptions, such as: at what rate do we expect the economy to grow? What will the future prices of current-generation technologies be? For how long can Eskom’s coal-fired plants generate? It then pronounces on which energy mix would best meet the desired outcome. While this is a science in the short term, beyond 10 years, it is more of an exercise in soothsaying. To compound matters, this process is influenced by political agendas, some of which are rational and policy-based (such as commitment to mitigating climate change) and others that are somewhat less so. With this in mind, two phrases that will be repeated in the coming months of public participation are "least-cost unconstrained scenario" and the "policy-adjusted scenario". The R1-trillion question ought to be: which scenario should be defined as the base-case scenario? When the model is run to establish the least-cost case for SA’s electricity provision to 2050, the answer it spits out is to build a lot of wind and solar photovoltaics supplemented by gas. Crucially, under the least-cost scenario, the model makes no provision whatsoever for nuclear technology. Many commentators believe the least-cost scenario should be the point of departure before any constraints or policy adjustments (the policy-adjusted base case) are applied. More importantly, any additional cost imposed by the application of constraints should be publicly available to be debated by policy makers and particularly by the taxpayers. The government and Eskom hold a different view. They believe the base-case point of departure should be taken after constraints are applied. This requires the model to constrain the annual build of renewable energy to 2010 IRP levels, even though the renewable energy programme has exceeded all its expectations on price-reduction, deployment, job-creation and inward investment into SA. The result is that SA is faced with two paths: a least-cost path of lots of renewable energy and gas mainly built by independent power producers, or a higher-cost path with some limited wind and solar, but also with a 20GW nuclear fleet at a cost of more than R2-trillion. As much as this should be a simple decision, energy and politics seldom combine to form a logical conclusion. The Department of Energy and Eskom have demonstrated that they would prefer to deviate from the least-cost scenario and constrain the allocation of renewables. This will maintain Eskom’s hegemony over electricity generation ownership and permit the building of 20GW of nuclear energy. The justification for this scenario is based on two arguments: that the amount of renewable energy in the least-cost unconstrained scenario will lead to an unstable grid; and that Eskom will build nuclear in SA for less than R1 per kWh. The first argument has long since been debunked by real-world examples in Europe and the US, where renewable contributions making up 70% or more of the energy mix are managed by sophisticated operators. The price argument also lacks believability when one considers Eskom’s track record on Medupi and Kusile, and real nuclear prices elsewhere in the world. Hinkley Point C in the UK is being contracted at the strike price of 9.25p per kWh, and recently, Vietnam cancelled its proposed 4GW nuclear plan when costs doubled to $18bn from Rosatom’s original proposed 2009 price. But, to use Eskom acting CEO Matshela Koko’s oft-repeated statement on the cost overruns on Medupi and Kusile, we must regard the additional costs of nuclear (whatever they may be) as "a sunk cost". This is a diversion. There is no showdown between "big renewables and big nuclear". It is a debate about spending priorities over the next 20 years. This is a debate about whether we want a nuclear fleet or to improve drastically the lives of SA’s people. Affordable electricity is a critical lever for economic progression, but if we choose to deviate from the least-cost path, it will only come at a cost to other programmes: housing, healthcare, and decent primary, secondary and tertiary education, to name a few. It is therefore critical that we understand the costs of a nuclear build and to ask why we are being asked to pay it. • Levington is the vice-chairman of the South African Photovoltaic Industry Association. 