Lawyers for the mine workers who were injured and arrested during the Marikana shooting incident have accused the government of acting in bad faith. They say no agreement regarding settlement has been reached with the state. President Jacob Zuma said on Sunday the government was "ready to pay" compensation when he gave an update on steps that have been taken to implement the Farlam commission’s recommendations. "The SAPS [South African Police Service] has instructed its attorneys to make offers of payments in full settlement of claims … [in cases in which] quantification [was] complete and [the cases] are not under criminal investigation," he said. Police spokesman Sandile Ngidi said on Monday negotiations between the government and the workers were still on. "We are very close to reaching an agreement, but what the government is urging is that even the plaintiffs must be sensitised to the need to come to the negotiating table because the lawyers ... have made representation and argued that the amounts are not fair," he said. Zuma also announced that criminal cases against some police officers involved had been referred to the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA). Without giving any names, he said a criminal case had been opened against a major-general and a brigadier for defeating the ends of justice. An attempted murder case was opened against some police officers for shooting and injuring workers. NPA spokesman Luvuyo Mfaku said no decision to prosecute the officers had been taken yet. "It is just the recommendations from the team that was assembled in line with the recommendation of the Farlam commission," he said. Acting special director of the Priority Crimes Litigation Unit Tori Pretorius would make a decision on the matter in consultation with the NPA director in North West, Johan Smit. The Independent Police Investigative Directorate had also recommended that some officers be charged with murder, defeating the ends of justice and lying to the Farlam commission. The mine workers’ lawyer, Andries Nkome, said his clients had not heard anything from the government, and accused the Presidency and the state of acting in bad faith. "It’s a pity that our clients have got to hear about the Presidency’s intentions through the media," he said. "The least the Presidency could have done was communicate this to us and we would have settled the matter. It just leaves a very bad taste in the mouth for our clients," Nkome said. The government had tried to convince the mine workers to drop their lawsuit, but they had refused and the matter was still pending, he said.