It is that time of the year when malls are overcrowded with spenders and money flows freely. Where people mix in good cheer and goodwill in long queues of frustration. Many shoppers will probably be so focused on their tasks that they will not notice the seismic shift that has accompanied the revamp of their favourite mall — a consumer-driven economy has emerged, and is overwhelmingly black. This consumer class has kept the economy afloat for a decade. Black people are the biggest drivers of the retail sector, especially the black middle class, which numbers 6-million people, according to the Unilever Institute for Marketing at the University of Cape Town, up from 2-million people in 2004. They are desperate to give their children the opportunity and freedom to own trinkets that they never enjoyed. But while black consumers have been keeping SA afloat, many of the companies they support by spending their money have remained stubbornly untransformed — in the composition of their boards, their executives, operational teams, shareholders and their supply chain. Some claim black people are still enriching white people in SA, unconscious of the power that they wield as consumers. The efforts to rectify the imbalances of the economic theft caused by apartheid have been regulatory in nature. All can agree it has not worked. The black economic empowerment codes have done nothing to ensure that SA’s position as the most unequal society in the world changes anytime soon. The regulatory approach has resulted in a box-ticking exercise in which compliance has become the goal, not transformation. It is not that business has done nothing to effect this change — it has not done enough. It is clear that a new tool is needed. SA requires market-led transformation to effect this change. Black consumers, who sustain the economy through their buying power, have the power to transform it. Consumers could easily be guided to make transformative purchases. A label, similar to the "Made in SA" tags found on many items, could be added to products made by black-owned companies. Let’s say the label boasts an image of an afro. The larger, the bushier and the darker the afro, the bigger the component of the manufacturer’s black ownership. But consumer power is limited. It can be fleeting and avaricious. It is, however, power and can and should be used to bully and sway corporates producing fast-moving consumer goods. In a world in which Donald Trump is elected US president and the British vote against their own interests to exit the EU, what stops black consumers from taking to social media to demand equity from companies producing the goods they buy? Transforming the economy to make it more representative of the population will benefit business because it will increase the customer base and it will satisfy their needs. It will not take the majority of consumers to pull this off — all it takes nowadays to make a difference is a vocal minority with a catchy hashtag. They merely have to read the annual report to ascertain what the companies they support are doing to transform the economy. This can be done by examining the composition of the board, the executive management and the supply chain. Embarrass Executives Then they could buy one share and set out to embarrass the executives at the company’s annual general meeting. This is not theory. In 2006, Gertruida Baartman from the Western Cape nongovernment organisation Women on Farms did exactly this. She bought one share in UK retailer Tesco and flew to England to attend its annual general meeting, She confronted the executives about the inhumane conditions on the farms in SA from which the company sourced its wine. "I don’t get paid enough to feed my children and I have to work with pesticides with my bare hands. I don’t get the same wages as men, even if I do the same work. I am here to ask Tesco what it is doing about the problem," she reportedly told the gathering. Shocked into action, Tesco set about establishing a more humanitarian supply chain for its wine imports from SA. A decade later, a Danish documentary released earlier in 2016 showed that not much had changed on some farms. But Baartman’s action had a huge effect on the way Tesco did business in SA. Imagine what mass action could do to businesses that have been resistant to change. Business in SA needs to examine its operating models. If businesses do not factor in radical economic transformation, then they are failing themselves. They can list all their corporate social investment projects in their annual reports. They can brag about enterprise development or crow about the billions they are spending on bursaries for higher education. It is still not enough. It is not even close to being enough. In defence of big business, many want to do the right thing. But they are hamstrung by old-style business models that place the bottom line above all else. Yes, the aim of business is to make money, but it has to do so in a viable, equitable and sustainable way. Business has to start to be part of what the October 2016 issue of the Harvard Business Review calls the ecosystem of shared value — where businesses use their influence to lead initiatives that benefit the whole of society. All to often, it is the shareholders and not management that are most resistant to change. They invested to get returns, not to sing Kumbaya with poor people. The management of corporates would do well to engage shareholders in serious conversations about whether the growth model is really feasible in a country that is so unequal. Management needs to point out that the long-term challenges of not dealing with SA’s inequalities is a huge threat to their investment. Businesses that benefited from the status quo should aim to rectify it. The economy is riddled with disparities, which means that it has to be transformed from the bottom up. For consumer-driven transformation to work, it needs active, thinking consumers, not people who are unwitting allies of those who are resistant to transformation. I suspect that transformation talk may be as welcome as a piece of coal in a Christmas stocking for the consumer class in SA, which is bribed by bargains and mesmerised by tinsel. The financial beneficiaries of their spending do not have to fear an imminent consumer revolt. Even Karl Marx would agree that the opium of the masses is not a saviour lying in a manger, but in the malls, filled with snowflake trimmings. It has been a strange year, everyone agrees. Who knows what next year will bring? • Claasen is the founder of media strategy company Untold Media.