Increasing demand for programmes in local languages offers M-Net huge growth potential across Africa, says CEO Yolisa Phahle.The South African-based broadcaster, which recently celebrated its 30th birthday, is already a prolific content producer in other countries and plans to extend its footprint in coming years.UK-born Phahle, who ran M-Net&rsquo;s South African activities before her appointment as Africa-wide head in October 2015, says M-Net produces a steady stream of programming out of its Nigerian studios and through local producers. Although this output is aimed primarily at West African viewers, some is available in SA on M-Net&rsquo;s Africa Magic channels.The broadcaster is also increasing East African capacity at its Kenya-based operation. The next focus is on the Zambezi region primarily Zambia, Botswana and Namibia. In total, says Phahle, M-Net programmes are seen in nearly 50 African countries.The challenge is to provide relevant, local content, she says. That means management and production teams are from these regions. "They are the only ones who really understand the consumers there."That said, consumer preferences can be surprising. Before M-Net started its local language channel in Kenya, one of the most popular programmes there was a Mexican telenovela drama dubbed into English.Language is a particular issue. A single country may be home to a dozen or more. In Kenya and Tanzania, the populations speak different forms of Swahili. In all, M-Net broadcasts in 10 languages.The rise of new technology, particularly smartphones, is changing the way people consume programming.Smartphones in Africa outnumber television sets. "It&rsquo;s a very mobile market," Phahle says. "But while the platforms people use to view will change, there will always be a need for local stories in local languages."Of course, there are programmes that have an audience across multiple countries but people primarily want to watch what is representative of them."As the world s second pay-TV company and the first in Africa, M-Net has a headstart on other, global companies eyeing the continent. Phahle says there is "some merit" to the argument that being first has given M-Net an edge, but it has had to work hard for any advantage."It s been very tough. We went where no one had been before. The idea of paying for TV was not popular. We have laid the groundwork for others to build from."There will be a lot more competitors in a few years. Global players want to come in and produce programmes in Africa. There is still a belief that Africa offers opportunities that are not achievable in the rest of the world."