The publication of the government&rsquo;s revised Integrated Resource Plan (IRP) shows that SA faces two energy paths. One is dominated by new coal and new nuclear, and the other &ndash; as foreseen by the IRP &ndash; is led by new renewable energy and new gas plants.A report published by the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) Energy Centre, SA&rsquo;s premier research institution, has put a value on these two different pathways.From 2040, when all these new plants are forecast to be built, the coal and nuclear option will cost the country R100bn a year, every year, more than the renewables and gas options.Imagine what a future government could do with R100bn a year to invest in education, healthcare or job creation.Decisions taken today could burden SA with crippling costs. That is why many companies are arguing for an electricity model that is fit for the future; one based on democratisation, decentralisation and division of Eskom&rsquo;s generation and grid businesses.SA is blessed with vast renewable energy reserves. Its size and shape allow it to develop large amounts of variable renewable generation without the grid system issues faced in smaller countries. The CSIR estimates SA could safely and securely run a power network of which 75% is renewable energy. Today 2% is renewable energy.Every unit of new renewable energy added to the grid will be cheaper than a coal and nuclear alternative; by 2040 it will be R100bn cheaper. Every year.This scenario does not include storage, such is the reliability of the country&rsquo;s solar and wind resource. If it did, the savings are likely to be greater.The rest of the world has embarked on the transition from fossil fuels to renewable energy. Yet Eskom is trying to hold back the tide of progress here. It will fail. That attempt to prevent the future, however, has a cost.The Renewable Energy Independent Power Producer Procurement Programme (REIPPPP) has, to date, facilitated the investment of approximately R20bn into rural communities for socioeconomic benefit and enterprise development.Further community investment under bid round four is not happening due to Eskom&rsquo;s refusal to sign the necessary documentation to allow new and much-needed power plants to proceed to construction. Thousands of rural families are not benefiting from the construction and ancillary jobs that would have flowed had these projects proceeded on time.Rural communitiesThe REIPPPP has delivered R190bn in investment into the energy network. Solar and wind projects are being built on time and on budget, bringing investment and jobs to marginalised rural communities.The REIPPPP is an international success story. Yet it appears that Eskom, in the face of direct instruction from the government, wants to kill off the programme.One inside theory is that Eskom has turned on the REIPPPP to hide its own management and board failings. It is easy to see why. The company has debts of R360bn. Its corporate debt has been downgraded to BB, or junk status, while its payroll is increasing and its energy sales are stagnant. Eskom cannot afford to develop a nuclear programme. If it attempted to do so, it would have damaging consequences for SA&rsquo;s credit ratings as well.If Eskom succeeds in derailing the REIPPPP and marches ahead into a coal and nuclear future, there will be few domestic supply-chain benefits for SA, as the core plant will be built overseas. It is a future in which the country will be exposed to carbon fines and border carbon adjustment, hampering exports and killing jobs; and it is one in which rural communities will forgo the significant domestic investment promised under the REIPPPP.If, however, Eskom is not allowed to dictate the future, and if the country follows the path so clearly set out by the CSIR and the IRP, then SA will emerge as a regional industrial hub, supplying low-carbon energy infrastructure across the continent and beyond.There will be widespread, long-term local participation in renewables projects across the country, and the whole energy system will be made up of a wide range of suppliers bringing democratisation, transparency and accountability to the sector.One billion rand a year, every year. When you next hear an Eskom spokesman say renewables are too expensive or too unreliable, tell him the country cannot afford the vision of the future that Eskom wants to impose on it.&bull; Dr O&rsquo;Connor is CEO of Mainstream Renewable Power.