The election of Donald Trump in the US is bad news for emerging markets. While his precise policy platform is still less than clear, there does seem to be enough clarity already on several key vectors of policy. Most important will be large tax cut-led fiscal loosening to promote infrastructure investment, which is likely to increase US Treasury issuance and steepen the US yield curve and the on-shoring of offshore US corporate savings that can strengthen the dollar. Protectionism and faster growth can add an accelerated pace of Federal Reserve rate tightening. While the scope of these factors remains uncertain, a strong dollar, a steep US yield curve and higher short-end US yields will expose emerging markets to capital outflows and repricing of currencies and debt. Most fundamentally, however, it is likely to cause an end to the market mentality that all that matters is carry, and you buy everything high-yield without asking questions. Such an attitude has helped SA largely escape serious scrutiny this year by markets, as expectations of Federal Reserve rate hikes were priced out (from four at the start of the year to only one now). As more money has flowed into emerging-market funds, so indexed investors have been forced to buy SA regardless of their underlying questions about the economy, exacerbated by the fact that most fund managers have wished to remain relatively close to benchmark and not buy less of SA than they might otherwise have done. However, if the implications of a Trump presidency are that carry is no longer king and we can expect outflows from emerging market funds, then SA is going to come under a much stronger magnifying glass than it has done for almost all of this year. In this regard, the anniversary of Nenegate at this time is apposite. We need seriously to consider what has actually been achieved and what will lift per capita income growth. This reminds me of Jonny Steinberg’s recent column about the ability of SA’s elite to lull itself into groupthink. Everyone seems convinced that real and meaningful structural reform is occurring, yet pick away at the case and it appears flimsy. Ask probing questions and it turns out reforms are designed more to provide a floor under current growth — to lower the chances of SA shooting itself in the foot — than to boost medium-run growth. Reforms to strike ballots and labour conciliation are positive moves, but these are reforms that cap downside risk rather than drive upside potential. They do not touch the real day-to-day issues within the labour market that are its frictions and costs to business. Similarly, the Mineral and Petroleum Resources Development Act Amendment Bill could remove some uncertainty for investment in that space, but the discretion in the bill given to the minister arguably outweighs any positive, especially given the state of the Department of Mineral Resources, wider uncertainty over gas policy and broader limiting factors weighing on the sector. Unity between the government and business is another area in which there has been excessive groupthink. First, it is really the Treasury that has been the key engagement point, pushing a reform agenda and supporting business sentiment. But, put simply, warm positive sentiment, while probably having been successful at providing a floor under the economy and preventing private sector investment growth from contracting significantly, cannot push the economy to higher medium-run growth on its own. Indeed, the GDP data on private sector investment growth, as well as the balance of payment data on investment outflows from SA corporates, shows this. I see the national minimum wage as the most regressive supposed reform. First, it is based on the idea that you pay workers more, and if there ends up being less employment growth as a result of higher cost, then this is an acceptable loss because the unemployed will be covered by a broader social security net. Dependent on the State It is a sad idea that suggests marginal workers below the minimum wage line are not allowed the dignity of stable employment and everything that brings (training, skills, security, wider nonwage benefits) if their productivity and labour are valued below the national minimum wage line, but instead will make them dependent on the state. This is the group that will get left behind by SA trying to jump the development spectrum (again). National minimum wages work where there is a flexible labour market and sufficient base level of productivity, and then productivity growth to support it. SA does not have that. More than that, though, a national minimum wage fundamentally affects the number one area in which medium-run growth can most effectively come from: the formalisation of township enterprises. This is the key economic frontier for growth, employment, fiscal base size, economic dynamism and investment in the economy. It is where policy actions can be most scalable and have most success — and most considerable negative effect. It is this frontier that has been forgotten in the national minimum wage debate. Such a debate — as with most reforms – has been about big government, big business and big labour. It forgets 36% of the labour force, and more, considering the size of the informal economy. There is clearly little voice for them in the National Economic Development and Labour Council discussions. Concentrating on SA "above the line" will continue to lead to a lack of fundamental reform that deals with unemployment — the key measure, more important for growth and development that is heading in the wrong direction despite all the supposed interventions this year. The data tell this story. Looking ahead, a fundamental issue is when unemployment will stop growing and when per capita income growth will turn back to positive territory. My view is that unemployment will stabilise only towards the end of 2017 and remain stuck at high levels. I don’t see per capita income growth increasing into positive territory until 2019. This will be the ultimate way of judging the reforms put in place. Fundamentally, I don’t see the private sector investing fast enough now to drive future growth. As such, although it is true that SA is turning a corner, this trope needs further scrutiny when thinking about 2017. Yes SA is "off the bottom". But it is still going to see a contraction in wealth per capita and a rise in unemployment, just a slower rate of deterioration than before. The distractions of politics look set to continue and intensify next year, which will mean shifting from this path will be increasingly difficult. SA’s political status quo means good reforms that have been proposed stand less chance of implementation, the recently announced new governance architecture for parastatals being a primary example. Beware of Groupthink As long as the political status quo remains, unemployment is on an upward trajectory and there is negative per capita growth. Champions of reform — whether they are in civil society, such as the Organisation Undoing Tax Abuse, or at the pinnacle of government, such as the Treasury — will continue to need championing and support against the "rest". I predict 2017 will require such support. In 2017, then, we need to study the data carefully to see what effect the reforms of 2016 are having on the positive (and negative) side, but be acutely aware of groupthink as well as spin to find where the economy is actually at — its true health. This should allow us to diagnose the right way forward, and identify the most likely difficult reforms that are truly needed and would boost growth, employment and development next year and beyond. Markets zooming in more on emerging market fundamentals will help that process. • Attard Montalto is senior emerging markets economist at Nomura in London.