The nuclear programme in SA has been pushed back by a couple of years, even though the allocation to nuclear is bigger than was previously the case. A draft blueprint of the government’s Integrated Resource Plan (IRP) said it now aimed to increase nuclear power output by 1,359 megawatts (MW) by 2037, on top of a previous target of adding 9,600MW of nuclear power by 2030. These numbers are the reason the pro-nuclear activists are now making themselves heard. Given that nuclear as a concept can be quite overwhelming, it is a good idea to compare it with something more tangible: a Ferrari. Caveat — I have absolutely nothing against the Ferrari brand, and the points below are merely to convey context. The problem with energy planning is that often market players do not see the sum of all the parts. Engineers love a technology type and will often neglect the financial considerations. Financiers take into account capital expenditure and operational expenditure, and listen to the lender technical advisers on whether the technology is sound. Lawyers draft the contracts and help the negotiation process, but often struggle with the technical and financial components. And business consultants sit somewhere in the middle, trying to make sense of it all. • Technology type. I have been in the energy space for quite some time and have yet to meet a person who disputes the engineering marvel, or the sophistication, of nuclear as a technology type. Similar to a Ferrari, nuclear has been in existence for a good couple of decades and the failure rate on both a nuclear plant and a Ferrari is negligible. The real question is whether you should buy a Ferrari given the condition of some of SA’s roads. Would a vehicle that is slightly less performance-focused — and with fewer sensitivity factors — not be better suited to our Third World infrastructure? One must always investigate economic substitutes and weigh them up against the purchasing factors and criteria. You might want to purchase a Ferrari based on a childhood dream or to satisfy certain hedonistic status requirements. The same rationale cannot be put forward for a nuclear plant, and the decision to procure needs to be completely transparent and justifiable from a technological, economic, safety, environmental and financial perspective. There are alternative technologies such as gas, renewables and even coal that could be used as base load and nonbase load power. • Financial considerations. Power projects are measured and gauged by their levelised cost of energy. At the moment, without going into too much detail, current wind and solar projects are cheaper than new coal, and both are cheaper than nuclear when measured in cents per kWh and whether nuclear comes in at R1.30 per kWh. While the South African government has in the past procured projects that are more costly from a levelised point of view than coal — for example, to stabilise and widen the energy mix — there must always be a sanity check. We now have less expensive alternatives to fall back on. A Ferrari, starting at about R2.5m, and the current nuclear programme, which is expected to come in at about R1-trillion, are both on the far right of the expense spectrum compared with the competition. From a cost perspective, nuclear numbers do not make sense and cannot be justified. At 2016’s African Utility Week in Cape Town, the nuclear fraternity was not able to provide satisfactory answers on the financing aspects of a nuclear programme. There is a large number of people who are of the opinion that Eskom is pushing the nuclear request for proposals at the moment as a "fishing exercise" to keep the political animals at bay. As with buying a Ferrari, you could obtain a vehicle that provides you with as much functional performance and enjoyment at half the price or less if you are willing to distance yourself from the horse on the badge and make peace with your actual buying power. • Skills. Both a nuclear and Ferrari programme require a unique set of skills from the conceptual stages, all the different project stages, eventual decommissioning and all the auxiliary services plugging into the programme. Just as Ferrari does not have scale in SA with its three branches, so nuclear does not have scale in Africa — SA is the only country on the continent with a plant that is operational. Highly Technical This factor can be overcome with training and upskilling, but it is not a natural condition for the market to be in. Working on a solar and wind farm project is less of an adjustment than working on a highly technical nuclear plant. China followed the route of standardised nuclear projects but it could do this since it is the second-biggest economic hub in the world, and the country has scale. Africa does not, and it already has the legacy of ordering the Rolls-Royce of coal-fired power stations in Medupi and Kusile. We all know how this is panning out from a project management perspective. If you cannot align the existing skill base with future projects, you are always on the back foot. • Environmental. The environmental footprint of a nuclear plant and of a Ferrari can be discussed and debated at length. There will always be vehicles consuming less fuel than a Ferrari; then again, if you can afford a Ferrari, the number of kilometres you get per litre of fuel is probably not front of mind. That said, nuclear has an excellent track record when it comes to plant failure, given the length of time nuclear plants have been in existence globally and also measured against the often unmeasured externalities of coal-fired power stations. Nuclear disasters are very few and very far between because of the stringent regulations these power plants are bound to, especially in the developed world such as Russia, France, Germany and the US. Suffice to say, nuclear is a cleaner energy source than one would expect and the waste produced by the power plant (although very hazardous) is minimal and can be catered for. However, the value chain associated with nuclear and the uranium mines that supply the technology is a wider conversation that cannot be captured within this article. The real question is whether the South African legislature will be up to dealing with the demands of a nuclear programme or whether environmental aspects will be seen as a secondary focus that can be dealt with at a later stage. The price to pay here is something that cannot be quantified — just ask Russia. • Market demand. There is a reason there are only three Ferrari shops in SA, which does not detract from the engineering and pure class associated with the vehicle brand itself. • It is only the richest of the rich who can even dream of owning such a vehicle. The demand and ability to purchase the vehicle is just not present in SA. Nuclear finds itself in a very similar position. For a recent project that Frost & Sullivan completed for a tier-1 banking institution, we modelled the supply side of the energy mix, taking into account all the existing power projects as well as those that are in the pipeline. The team then mapped the drop-off rate of these projects against market demand. Wrong Scenarios Given the current — extremely sluggish — economy, the need for large base load projects in the foreseeable future is just not there. In fact, all 11 of the IRP scenarios from the IRP 2010 document got it wrong. Every single one. The deviation from an energy demand average point was a staggering 21% compared with actual 2015 energy consumption data. It is extremely hard to plan long-term projects when there is a 21% deviation even over just five years, especially when nuclear projects lock you in to the financial and technical arrangement for up to 60 years. It is important to note that very few people will dispute the technology contained in a Ferrari or a nuclear plant. It shows what we as a human species are capable of creating. The real question is whether these technological marvels are ready for Africa, given our market conditions, levels of corruption and general inability to conduct proper planning. Just as the purchase of a Ferrari would cripple a household that cannot afford the car, purchasing a nuclear fleet would almost definitely cripple the South African economy. • Muller is programme manager for energy & environment at Frost & Sullivan Africa.