Beleaguered Kaizer Chiefs coach Steve Komphela has finally opened up about the pain of being pelted with missiles by his own fans and listening to them angrily chant for his sacking at the club’s home matches. Komphela has been escorted by police after recent matches and admitted on Monday he was going through hell. "Sometimes when I go through pressure and hell‚ it is about who do I represent‚" he said. "Sometimes you have to take fire not because you deserve to be burnt‚ you take fire on behalf of (the club). And when you suffer on behalf of (the club) you suffer with pleasure." The once all-conquering Chiefs are a shadow of their dominant former selves and they are seventh on the PSL standings‚ having played 12 matches‚ won four‚ drawn five and lost three. They have not won a game since beating Ajax Cape Town 2-0 in October. That victory was followed by goalless draws against Orlando Pirates and Baroka FC‚ a 1-2 defeat to Mamelodi Sundowns‚ 1-1 draws with SuperSport United and Cape Town City‚ and a 1-3 loss to Chippa United in their last game. Chiefs’ remaining matches before the Christmas break are against Bloemfontein Celtic at Soccer City on Wednesday‚ Polokwane City at home on Sunday and away to Golden Arrows on December 21. Home matches‚ in particular‚ have been hard on Komphela and he has endured a torrid time from irate fans. The Chiefs coach admitted that he was approaching Wednesday’s encounter against 12th placed Celtic with some degree of trepidation as he knew exactly what would happen should Chiefs misfire once again. "Sometimes it works against you when you are playing at home and your people are not happy and they are edgy. It becomes a tense match." Komphela said while the last few weeks had been difficult‚ quitting was the furthest thing from his mind. "The only result at Chiefs is a win‚ let us be realistic. A draw is not good and a loss is like a death." • Cape Town City and Platinum Stars are at polar opposites in terms of their morale and fortunes going into Tuesday night’s clash at the Athlone Stadium. City top the league and will be oozing confidence after winning the Telkom Knockout this past weekend‚ while Stars are in the midst of a four-game losing streak that sees them just above the relegation zone. City coach Eric Tinkler‚ it seems‚ can do no wrong‚ while his opposite number in this clash‚ Cavin Johnson‚ is struggling to get anything right. Johnson has received fulsome backing from his club in recent weeks‚ but he has been around long enough to know that this is a result-business and if things do not improve by the festive season break‚ change might be coming. It has forced a rallying cry from Stars’ forward Benson Shilongo‚ who netted twice in the side’s 3-2 home loss to Polokwane City last time out. City have won nine of their 10 games in all competitions and are bursting with confidence‚ but this might just be the right time for Stars to be playing them. Tinkler has already bemoaned his side’s travel schedule that saw them return — probably with very sore heads – from Polokwane on Sunday‚ leaving them one day to prepare for the arrival of Stars. They will no doubt be on an emotional high‚ but when reality bites and it is back to business in front of 1,000 fans at the slightly soulless Athlone Stadium‚ it could be a challenge to raise their level to their usual excellent standard. TMG Digital