What a year it has been for Sovereign shareholders, one jam-packed with drama that saw the share price swing from a low of R6.30 in January to a high of R9.50 in September before plummeting back to R7.78.The share price moved pretty much in tandem with expectations around an offer from unlisted Country Bird Holdings (CBH). The move to R9.50 followed the much-awaited announcement of an offer; the slump to R7 in October followed the enforced lapsing of that offer. While shareholders had a rocky ride, the lawyers and advisers at Sovereign did well out of the ingenious defences put up against the CBH marauders.But perhaps 2017 is the time to save on the legal and other fees and work on a big audacious plan appropriate for the industry&rsquo;s tough times. One such plan gaining a little bit of traction among battle-weary Sovereign shareholders is a tie-up not only with CBH, but also Daybreak.Daybreak hit the headlines briefly early in 2016 when it appeared on the Public Investment Corporation&rsquo;s list of unlisted investments. Turns out that Daybreak, which is the only large black-owned company in the industry, is a major beneficiary of the PIC&rsquo;s largesse.While it is great that the PIC plays a role in helping to fund new players, its continuing willingness to provide funding to a struggling player in an industry facing big challenges, does make things even more difficult for the other players.Both CBH and Sovereign need an empowerment partner and Daybreak might benefit from a relationship with some seasoned players. The merged entity would have much-needed scale and it would have a very attractive BEE profile. This would save Sovereign from persevering with its own controversial scheme and might also help to improve relations with the government. In view of the onslaught from imports, improved relations with the government can only help.Whatever could outsourcing specialist Workforce Holding, which has seen its share price rise almost 300% over the past three years, be contemplating? It issued a cautionary notice on Wednesday, which is likely to stir some wide-ranging speculation from small-cap punters.Now that it is on a firmer financial footing, there is every chance that a niche acquisition to diversify its services is on the cards. This year, Workforce did acquire the Quyn Group, raising its offering of technical skills.But could Workforce be considering bigger opportunities, seeing how fellow outsourcing specialist CSG Holdings has built profitable niches away from its labour-broking core in cleaning and security?It may well be that Workforce itself is in play. With a market capitalisation of about R475m and a potential after-tax profit of more than R85m for the financial year ahead, the company certainly looks like an affordable pitch from either a larger competitor or a private equity party. The forward earnings multiple, at the ruling share price, is less than five times.Of course, the modest ratings applied to Workforce&rsquo;s shares, naturally won&rsquo;t be lost on its executives, who have toiled hard to bring sustainability to the business. There could probably be no better time for executives to pitch a buyout to minorities (say 225c a share) and then delist the company from the JSE.&bull; Neels Blom edits Company Comment (blomn@bdlive.co.za)