Protests at universities stirred up not only campuses but also many people outside including parents, government officials and the media. A common question from some observers was: why don’t universities just bring the police in, arrest the people who are causing the disruptions, and allow university life to focus again on teaching, learning and research? But many people including law-abiding staff members and students at the affected universities supported the issues that were raised and registered their concern about the "militarisation" of campuses caused by the presence of private security and members of the South African Police Service. The challenge for higher education institutions has been to try to walk a narrow line in response to protests: upholding the right of students to study and academics to teach, while supporting the equal right of protesters to lawful freedom of expression on issues that many of us recognise are legitimate. The toughest test of leadership is to have to make judgment calls on the spot during protracted and sometimes violent crises. Admittedly, it has often been difficult to find the right line in the recent protests. Taking account of the fluid situation, the University of Cape Town (UCT) senior executive team got it right most of the time. Unfortunately, the agreement signed by members of the UCT executive and student representatives on November 6 has been misunderstood by those who think the university is capitulating to disruptive behaviour. The agreement created a quiet space after weeks of disruptions for two processes: to allow for the completion of final exams for students in November (it succeeded); and to create a platform for establishing a process to dealing with a range of underlying issues that fuelled protests on campus over the past 18 months. Universities have a historical role as places that bring change into society, and legal protest is a critical exercise of freedom of expression. So a very critical concern is how to keep the door open for engagement on the legitimate issues that underlie the current protests — transformation, cultural diversity, the principles of access to quality and affordable education, decolonisation and gender equality, to name a few — while also allowing for research, teaching and learning to take place so that new graduates can enter the workplace and contribute to the growth of the economy. Recent dialogue with alumni reinforced the need for UCT to acknowledge that issues such as financial exclusion, inadequate accommodation and prohibitively expensive course materials, for example, have always been top of mind for people invested in the lives of university students. This is because close on the heels of the promise of opportunity provided by access to tertiary education, lurks a stark reality: the often unbearable financial burden that a university student imposes on an already struggling family. The nature of inequality is such that those with less power are forced to become familiar with the rules, codes and expectations of those with more power in order to survive the relationship, whereas the reverse typically happens only by choice. For privileged people such as myself, it is relatively easy to remain securely enshrined in our circles of self-perpetuated ignorance about "how the other half" lives. There is no reason why a middle-class woman from Claremont must expose herself to life in Langa, Guguletu or Manenberg — except perhaps to catch a glimpse while driving along the N2 en route to Cape Town International Airport. This kind of ignorance allows us to dismiss the events of the past few months as the actions of a "minority group of thugs and hooligans" who "don’t look like students anyway". And in so doing, we miss an opportunity to truly listen and reflect on the type of society that each of us is complicit in creating and sustaining — for better or worse. This does not mean giving in to criminal behaviour. Every time someone has been identified as committing an unlawful action on campus, UCT has opened a disciplinary and/or criminal case. The university has completed internal disciplinary processes on a range of such cases, sometimes with sanctions as serious as expulsion or rustication. More just society But the protesters are young people with their lives ahead of them and they are seeking changes that can lead to a more just and representative society. The university wants to support these positive aspirations while seeking to maintain a stable environment for teaching, learning and research. This was the spirit underlying the agreement. It makes clear that the Institutional Reconciliation and Transformation Commission, which will oversee this process, will call for contributions from all stakeholders. The commission’s terms of reference, scope, modus operandi and process are being drafted. The commissioners will be independent of UCT and the protesting students. Such an approach will take time and effort. But it is more effective than a simplistic, law-and-order stance that only exacerbates tension on campus. Many uncertainties lie ahead. The government’s fees commission, for example, will complete its report on the feasibility of free higher education only in the middle of 2017. UCT supports the co-funding of higher education from subsidy and fees. It recommends offering grants to students from the poorest economic sector, providing their total fees and thus effectively creating fee-free education. Similarly, partial grants and loans could be offered to students from the "missing middle" income group receiving up to R600,000 annual income. Tuition, then, would be paid only by students from wealthy households. This plan, however, assumes a much higher government subsidy to higher education. Meanwhile, UCT is committed to examining how we can support the principle of free, decolonised higher education. This means engaging with as wide a constituency as possible, to arrive at an understanding of what decolonisation means in a higher education context, as well as what transformation might mean in the campus environment. An example of this is how the university honours the leadership black South Africans and women bring to higher education — not just the white, male leaders of the past. The annual general meetings of convocation and the Alumni Advisory Board will take place on December 15 at 5pm. Please join us and continue the conversation. • Yach is chairwoman of the UCT Alumni Advisory Board.