Dubai &#8212; Faf du Plessis said it. Then Russell Domingo said it. Now Haroon Lorgat has said it: the quality of the lights at South African grounds is not good enough to stage pink-ball, day-night Test cricket.The pink ball was used in the inaugural season of the Africa T20 Cup in 2015-16, Cricket SA CE Lorgat said. &quot;One of the reasons for this was to test our conditions as we were already thinking about day-night Test cricket in future. Regrettably, we found that our lights will need significant upgrade.&quot;That echoes the views of SA&#8217;s captain and coach, Du Plessis and Domingo, after the third Test against Australia in Adelaide &#8212; the Proteas&#8217; first day-nighter.Even so, the facts of that match suggest efforts will be made to play Test cricket under lights in SA in the coming years.The total attendance in Adelaide of 125,993 is a figure South African administrators can only dream of, and it was up from the 123,736 who saw Australia beat New Zealand in the inaugural day-night Test at the same ground last November.The 37,932 who turned up on the second day was the biggest crowd for a day of Test cricket involving SA in Adelaide. A day later 35,897 came through the turnstiles, more than have attended the third day&#8217;s play at the ground in any Test that has not been part of an Ashes series. W ith crowds of 10,000 on any day of a Test in SA regarded as decent, the prospect of exponentially more bums being put on seats because of hours of play that accommodate working people will excite Cricket SA.But let us not get too carried away. That the total attendance for this Adelaide Test was higher than that of a year ago must be balanced against the fact that the game lasted a day more than last November&#8217;s. So while a daily average of 41,245 streamed into Adelaide Oval last year, 31,498 did so this time. Moreover, the peak television audience was down by 1-million compared with 2015 and the average audience fell by 500,000.Which could mean the novelty value of pink-ball, day-night Tests is inflating its chances of long-term viability.The upside is that thousands watched in person and on television despite the series having been decided before the match started, that Australia were being dominated, and that temperatures plummeted to wintry levels after dark.If Cricket SA decided to give it a go, when and where might we see our first day -night Test?&quot;We believe the Highveld is better suited to host day-night Test cricket, and January or February feels like the right time of year,&quot; Lorgat said.But before vast amounts are invested in improving SA&#8217;s floodlights, it is worth the game asking itself: would Test cricket&#8217;s core audience be comfortable with all this change?