Stock exchanges trading ahead of the JSE’s opening on Tuesday morning took their cue from Wall Street where the Dow Jones Industrial closed at a fresh record of 19,216 points. The weaker euro following Italy’s "no" vote in a referendum on Sunday saw the Euro Stoxx 50 index gain 1.25% on Monday. The Borsa Italiana’s MIB index, however, fell 0.21%. Industrial metals resumed their rally, with copper futures for three months delivery gaining 3.3% to $5,950/tonne and zinc gaining 3.7% to $2,767/tonne. Brent and West Texas Intermediate crude oil prices were both about 0.6% higher. SA’s third quarter gross domestic product (GDP) figures are scheduled for release by Statistics SA at 9:30am on Tuesday. The economists’ consensus is SA’s economy showed a small growth of about 0.5% in the third quarter from the second quarter. It rebounded 3.3% in the second quarter after contracting 1.2% in the first quarter. SA’s annual GDP growth has steadily decelerated from 3.3% in 2011 to 1.3% in 2015. "Recent statistics suggest that the economy grew at a much slower pace in the third quarter than in the second.  The main drag came from a struggling manufacturing sector. Our GDP growth forecast for calendar 2016 has been raised slightly from 0.3% to 0.4%. We still forecast only modest economic growth of around 1% in 2017 and 1.5% in 2018," Nedbank’s economics team said in a note on Monday. SA’s GDP for the year to end-June was R3.07-trillion, a recovery back to the level it was in the year to end-January 2015, Stats SA reported on September 6. Investec Bank economist Kamilla Kaplan forecast GDP growth at 0.8% for the third quarter. "GDP growth prospects are a key consideration for SA’s sovereign credit rating, given the implications for fiscal consolidation. In their recent ratings reviews, Moody’s, Fitch and S&P all highlighted that the absence of a growth recovery increases the likelihood of a ratings downgrade," she wrote in a note on Monday. "Going forward, the rating agencies will likely monitor progress on structural reforms that are required to lift the economy towards a sustainable growth trajectory." S&P noted in its report on Friday that while the government has identified important reforms and supply bottlenecks in SA’s highly concentrated economy, delivery has been piecemeal.