Higher education funding, or the insufficiency thereof, has been one of the most talked-about topics in 2016, easily unseating unemployment. This is no surprise as university campuses across the land degenerated into chaos, with students demanding that they pay no fees for their education.Post-high school education is akin to running the gauntlet for most students because tuition fees are often just one of the financial worries they have. University residence accommodation is expensive, as is the food offered at dining facilities and canteens. Residences often do not allow students to prepare their own meals and have no self-catering facilities.Universities also do not have enough rooms to accommodate students on campus, so those who cannot find or afford campus accommodation have to rent nearby, or far. Generally, the closer the accommodation is to campus, the more expensive it is.Those who find it at more than walking distance from campus also have to find money for transport.The students&rsquo; demand for free education has an even stronger foundation when one considers corresponding socioeconomic realities. The most recent Quarterly Labour Force Survey by Statistics SA shows that unemployment has risen to 27%, the highest on record. It rose even as 233,000 jobs were created in several sectors.Losing a job is not only felt by the retrenched worker and their immediate family, as many workers support non-nuclear family members who are either orphaned or are themselves unemployed, or their parents are unemployed. Many students come from such families.Having to support more family members erodes the financial base of many middle-income earners who otherwise would be able to make a bigger contribution to their children&rsquo;s education. They end up being part of the "missing middle", parents who theoretically can afford university tuition, but in reality simply cannot. This phenomenon is also evident in the state-subsidised housing market.The National Student Financial Aid Scheme (NSFAS), which assists needy students, has ensured that millions in the past 20 years have completed their tertiary education.However, more is clearly needed. There is a need for an equitable funding formula that ensures no deserving students are unable to access higher education because they are poor.Arriving at and implementing such a formula is complex and will be impossible if the discussion remains polarised and held hostage by ideological dogma on all sides.The nation needs to be frank with itself and agree that there is a profound shortage of resources in many critical areas, not just higher education. The public needs better and more hospitals and clinics. Many schools do not meet national minimum norms and standards. In some instances, we do not have the right teachers for subjects and they often complain about poor pay.Since our government relies on tax revenues and borrowing to fund the needs of the public, it cannot simply print the money. It has to decide which needs are more urgent, more important and therefore are deserving of more funding. There is no doubt that education is a priority, but we need to decide what is not. One would be hard-pressed to find any area whose constituents do not regard it as important.The police, social workers, prison warders, the health system and other public services are all important. Some have proposed reducing defence expenditure, but this cannot be done without making the very idea of an army redundant. The South African National Defence Force is under strain and has to make do with very limited resources as it is.There are those who have proposed increasing corporate taxes to fund education and introducing special taxes for the same purpose, such as a "graduate tax". Such ideas carry enormous emotional capital but fall short on consistency. Since so many people do not have access to high-quality healthcare, why not have a "hospital tax" in addition to "normal" income tax? Ring-fencing taxes collected for special purposes does not make the taxes any more impactful than they would be if made part of a general income tax increase, and the state simply prioritised its allocations accordingly.Increasing TaxesCorporate taxes could be increased too, but the Treasury always has to measure the corresponding effect of such a decision. Increasing taxes in an economy that is not growing sufficiently is not generally a wise thing to do.Fundamentally, we need a growing economy to increase our tax revenues, which we in turn use for education and other urgent needs. When an economy is growing at a healthy rate, corporate and personal income tax increases are far less painful to absorb and often there is little or no negative effect.Annual financial statistics for 2015 showed that total company net profit declined by about R30bn after accounting for taxes and dividends. The taxes amounted to almost R144bn, while dividends slightly exceeded R170bn.Some might suggest increasing capital gains tax. This is fine except that a significant amount of the return on investments goes to pension funds for the public and private sectors the pensions of the same people who are struggling to send their children to university. This does not mean there is no case for an increase in, capital gains tax, but it is more complex than it may appear on the surface.Not talking about the nub of the issue in the context of the violent protests at universities will not help us. At some point soon, we have to talk about effective government and management of the economy and its various levers, such as state-owned enterprises.About R500bn of the state&rsquo;s debt burden is in the form of guarantees to state-owned enterprises such as Eskom and South African Airways. They have been beset by profound governance problems that have dominated news headlines for years, with no end in sight. Providing such guarantees shrinks the room the state has to borrow for other purposes, such as building universities and subsidising the costs of tertiary education.Reducing the level of debt on the country&rsquo;s balance sheet is critical to its ability to meet public needs. Restoring proper governance and prudent decision-making to state-owned companies is a politically fractious but necessary step the finance minister has tried to emphasise on many occasions.The state&rsquo;s poor financial and governance record is also part of the reason we face the prospect of a sovereign rating downgrade, and why the national and parastatal debt, which the government guarantees, is so expensive.Further options may include partial privatisation and listing on the JSE Securities Exchange to raise private capital that would fund their programmes, which in turn are supposed to work for the public good. The first step, however, is freeing them from the clutches of the special personal, commercial and political interests that have damaged them with corruption.We also need to accept that it is simply not possible, at least in the short term, to provide free education for everyone. Only a reduction in the public sector wage bill over time and a radical reduction in wasteful expenditure can create significant room for more money to be diverted to higher education in particular.What is very possible is partnerships between the private sector, government and nongovernmental organisations that would find solutions beyond private scholarship funds. The property development sector, municipalities, the banking and food industries, among others, can, if well co-ordinated and led, begin to solve some of the structural problems affecting the affordability of university education.Student &nbsp;AccommodationIt is possible for the private sector to build affordable and safe student accommodation for a smaller margin than would normally be the case, but this requires the co-operation of municipalities in making land available, banks financing the developments at favourable rates and the government providing marginal tax rebates for those who take part.NSFAS chairman Sizwe Nxasana has done an excellent job so far in marshalling the collective wisdom of various stakeholders to find solutions to the higher education funding challenge. However, university vice-chancellors have been left to face the wrath of students on their own. It is clear their institutions would shut down if they were to arbitrarily cancel all tuition and related fees.However urgent and important the funding challenge is, we simply cannot wish the complexity of the situation away. It requires the political culture and its attitude to economic governance and management to change. It needs a new social contract anchored by a state that does not face a legitimacy problem, and actors in the education space who do not mistake ideological dogma for radicalism.The difficult environment in our universities cannot be seen and treated in isolation to the difficulties we face elsewhere. Doing so will only prolong the deadlock and prevent us finding sustainable solutions to the problems we face. Zibi is an author and former editor of Business Day