SA&rsquo;s arrival on the world wine stage after the 1994 elections has long been promoted as a textbook case of a properly managed export achievement.In 1991 wine exports totalled 23-million litres. By 1994 this had grown to 50-million litres. International sales reached almost 500-million litres 20 years later &mdash; a volume which exceeded the total domestic market. The industry&rsquo;s success was earned mainly on the back of the ample investment of producers&rsquo; boot leather and the ever-falling rand.This achievement owed nothing to the Department of Trade and Industry, which makes a limited (and largely affirmative action) investment in the trade show circuit.Wines of SA, the industry&rsquo;s mainly self-funded export generic body, co-ordinated efforts in major markets and spent a considerable amount of money bringing influential (and sometimes not-so-influential) writers to the Cape on a regular basis.Some of these critics have now started to carve out their own little niches as Cape wine experts on their home stage. One of them, Tim Atkin, produces an annual report which is targeted at domestic as well as foreign readers and buyers.South African wine now enjoys an enhanced reputation abroad. In the early post-apartheid days the major focus of most producers was the UK, followed by Germany, the Netherlands and Scandinavia.These were the places where Cape wine had been selling before the isolation era, they were in a comfortable time-zone, and the demand &mdash; especially in the early days of the Nelson Mandela presidency &ndash; seemed insatiable.The more thoughtful producers recognised the limitations of this strategy. These European markets were all price sensitive, trade customers were mainly supermarket chains buying in the commodity segment, and opportunities for premiumisation were limited.Over the past 15 years many estates, and the big brand owners, have also spent heavily in North America.The industry compiles remarkably detailed statistics on what wines are sold where, and in what kind of packaging, so interrogation of this achievement is possible. All figures cited are from 2015. The first and most revealing figure is the disproportion between sales in bulk, and sales in a container destined for purchase by the consumer in that format.Bulk Wine SalesIt would come as no surprise to most players (and, in fairness to the department which has been arguing strongly against the trend) that bulk to the UK is twice the volume of packaged goods, almost four times the volume of packaged goods in Germany (the next most important market by volume), and 10-fold in Russia.France is the third largest importer of South African wines, but its purchases of bottled wine are so small they don&rsquo;t even feature on the table of statistics.Bulk wine sales are generally destined for contract bottlers (there are many in France servicing the EU) supplying supermarkets and multiples &mdash; clients who seek their stock-in-trade from the lowest-cost suppliers. Most of what they sell is under a label unknown in the home market, and its primary appeal (at the price point) is probably that it comes with a Fairtrade certification.Goods that leave SA in bag-in-box or plastic are still considered packaged, though this hardly constitutes a premium sale. More than 80% of exports to the UK arrives in glass. In Germany less than 50% is in glass, and in Sweden bag-in-box exports are three times larger than in bottle.Of our vaguely major markets, the only one that is a buyer of bottled wine is Canada &ndash; at about 850,000 cases.Wines sold abroad in glass is a smaller business than the domestic trade, by roughly 20%. Several smaller centres in SA are more important markets than most of our major trading partners. While there are no accurate figures showing the breakdown of the local wine business, there is a general trade consensus. Gauteng is believed to account for 60%-65% of the national premium trade; the Western Cape 15%-20%, Durban 5%-8% and the other provincial capitals about 2%-4%.Included in the Western Cape statistics are cellar door sales, and estates&rsquo; mail and rail &mdash; usually purchases by South African (non-Cape) tourists.AvailabilityIt is probable that many of these buyers hail from areas other than Gauteng as Sandton or Pretoria wine lovers have no difficulty finding the beverage of their choice.It makes more sense to attribute the bulk of this trade to regional capitals. It&rsquo;s also more realistic to exclude most of the on-consumption sales which take place over the tourist season.If these assumptions are correct, then consumers in the Western Cape account for no more than 13%-15% of the market, while provincial capitals would range about 3% for Bloemfontein to about 6.5% for Durban and Pietermaritzburg.So the Gauteng market is three times larger than SA&rsquo;s biggest premium export market, the UK. KwaZulu-Natal (and Port Elizabeth together with East London) account for the same volumes as the entire US.Nelspruit, bulked up by the Maputo Corridor and strong local tourism, is a bigger market than the whole of Canada or China. Bloemfontein probably sells more bottled Cape wine than Sweden or Belgium.It s not certain whether any of the key decision-makers in the industry want to digest this message. Some of the bigger players have offices (where staff are paid in hard currency) in several international capitals.The marketing professionals love their trips abroad. Most wine makers are on the road internationally for at least a month every year and yet they try to delegate to someone else the mandatory visits to Gauteng. Almost all of them would never dream of putting in three days on the road in the Eastern Cape.They have been doing it wrong for years, seduced by rising bulk wine sales, an increasingly warm response from journalists who love jolly trips to the Western Cape, and the illusion that there must be a pot of gold because someone once glimpsed a rainbow.