The Department of Home Affairs has approached the Treasury for an exemption on staff caps a month before a government-wide ceiling on employee costs kicks in. From January 13, government departments will start the belt-tightening exercise that will see employee numbers and costs capped. However, the department, with the support of the portfolio committee on home affairs, has written to the Treasury, asking for an exemption. This would allow the department to appoint more immigration inspectors. The department is laying the groundwork for the establishment of a Border Management Authority after getting approval from the portfolio committee despite Treasury concerns. The committee chairman has also written to the Treasury about the same issue. The Treasury fears such an agency would muscle in on the South African Revenue Service’s functions and mandate. Home affairs spokesman Mayihlome Tshwete said the department remained hopeful the Treasury would respond positively to its request as the efficacy of migration services depended on this. "Our priority is to make sure that we deliver quality services…. We have issues we have raised with the Treasury and the public about the constraints we are in — and some of them have been felt by those travelling through our ports of entry…. We are experiencing the pinch of limited capacity." Tshwete said because of constraints, travellers would experience delays "because there are not enough inspectors" to speed up the process. "We will always keep in contact with National Treasury on the issue. Currently, we are looking at options and speaking to entities outside government and state-owned companies. We don’t know how long that will take," he said. If the request is declined, the department would have to consider teaming up with multiple agencies in the state to build capacity for the Border Management Authority. Home Affairs portfolio committee chairman Lemias Mashile said it planned to call the Treasury to brief MPs about why an exemption for the department would not be possible. "The [Treasury] has written a response to the letter. But they are wishy-washy. "We have decided to invite the Treasury to come and present to the committee. The thing is, it does not look like they understand what we are saying," Mashile said. Home affairs needed thousands of inspectors and this required substantial funding. However, the Treasury had lobbied the Cabinet to cut employee compensation, which would work against home affairs. "We are establishing the border agency…. While the personnel will come from existing entities, the need for additional human and financial resources is unavoidable, " he said. The Treasury had not responded on Monday.