Most entrepreneurs are intimidated by the government’s R600bn annual procurement budget, but you don’t need to be a tycoon or a big industrialist to do business with the state, says the Treasury’s chief procurement officer, Kenneth Brown. The state’s procurement budget is distributed among more than 1,000 procuring entities — from small municipalities and metros to national departments and state-owned companies such as Eskom. Brown, addressing a dialogue hosted by the African Entrepreneurs Council (AEC) in Johannesburg on Friday, said most businesspeople saw procurement from the state as the domain of industrialists in the mistaken belief that they needed to land the R100m contracts. However, Brown urged up-and-coming entrepreneurs to start small and think about opportunities when it came to the R1m and R100,000 contracts. "A big chunk of what we buy is actually under R100m, and that is why we are changing the rules to accommodate [small] business, especially black business," Brown told a room full of entrepreneurs to rousing applause and cheers. "This fallacy that you have to be a big player or a big industrialist to do business with the state must fall," he said. When Brown took office about three years ago, he encountered a procurement system that was archaic and rule-bound, he said. To change the system, he and his team needed to think about using technology smartly to make it easy for business to flourish. One of the innovations that resulted from the process was the central supplier database, where everyone thinking of doing business with the state registers just once. "In there, we get your tax clearance, directorships and all manner of other information. In the past, you needed to visit SARS, you needed to go all over the place at your own expense [to register on the state’s supplier system]. Now, you can register anywhere — [even] in the comfort of your own office," said Brown. He cited the e-tender portal as another innovation. "Many of these things are new and it will take time for them to mature. Compliance is 30%, we need to push it to 100%," Brown said. The chief procurement officer was also candid about the perils of doing business with the state, saying the payment walk-in centre set up at the Treasury to help speed up payments to business had processed only R400m worth of complaints. "Many people will not report late payment for fear of victimisation," he said. AEC president George Sebulela, who also serves as the Black Business Council (BBC) general secretary, said: "We realised a lot of entrepreneurs don’t have a platform to express themselves. The AEC was born six months ago, even though we started thinking about starting about a year ago. "The BBC’s role is to facilitate a platform for black business to be in the mainstream of the economy. It has an entrepreneurial and a professional membership. "However, the AEC is strictly for entrepreneurs of all races, we are not professionals. Also, it’s not limited to opportunities in SA and the continent; we are international." The AEC had started talks with the Chinese business community, as well as those of France and Russia. "We are going to go on many trade missions. We have seen a lot opportunities in SA and beyond," Sebulela said, adding that Brown had been invited because the state was also key in facilitating the rise of entrepreneurial industrialists.