Although 2016 was generally a disappointing year for rugby‚ several coaches emerged who could guide the sport in a more positive‚ direction in coming years. 1. Johan Ackermann (Lions) – Already a Currie Cup winner and a conference winner in Super Rugby‚ Ackermann is a breath of fresh air. He was an artisanal‚ hard-working Springbok lock‚ but as a coach he is an artist‚ drawing out attacking flair from his players based on skills development and consistency in selection. He learnt a lot from former Lions and All Black coach John Mitchell, and built on the skills he gleaned from the abrasive but insightful Kiwi. 2. Jake White (Montpellier) – White has just about done it all in the game – a World Cup winning coach‚ Junior World Cup winner‚ Tri-Nations winner‚ European Challenge Cup winner and Australian Super Rugby Conference winner. He’s transformed Montpellier from underachieving big spenders to serial winners in France and Europe. Though his no-nonsense approach and pragmatism cost him his job in France‚ he remains tactically and technically SA’s most astute coach. 3. Franco Smith (Cheetahs) – The former Springbok centre has done hard apprenticeship with Benetton Treviso in Italy‚ the Varsity Cup with Shimlas and now with the Cheetahs. He led his side through an undefeated Currie Cup campaign and demonstrated that with the right ethos he could develop a team without stars. His motto is to upskill every player so that‚ aside from prop‚ positions become almost irrelevant. 4. Rassie Erasmus (Munster) – Losing Erasmus to Ireland was a blow though it was unclear how well he’d adapt to a hands-on coaching role in Limerick after six years in the background. The answer was‚ easily. Munster are purring along under Erasmus. The former Bok flank has always been one of the most innovative coaches in the game and he’s generally surrounded himself with good lieutenants to bolster his shortcomings. 5. Robbie Fleck (Stormers) – The fourth former Springbok player on the list‚ Fleck took the Stormers to the play-offs in his first season in charge in 2016. He recognises that he still has a lot of development to do‚ but has employed a NZ skills and technical coach to help his development. Fleck’s team showed promise, but he needs another season to prove‚ or disprove that he has what it takes to succeed at the highest level. TMG Digital