Singapore — Oil prices shot up more than 12%, smashing trading volume records, after producer cartel Opec and Russia cut a deal to reduce output to drain a global supply glut, but analysts warned prices could recede as other producers stand by to fill the gap. Opec agreed on Wednesday its first oil output reduction since 2008 after de-facto leader Saudi Arabia accepted "a big hit" and dropped a demand that arch-rival Iran also slash output. The deal also included the group’s first co-ordinated action with non-Opec member Russia in 15 years. "Opec has agreed to a historic production cut," analysts at AB Bernstein said. "The cut of 1.2-million barrels a day was at the upper end of expectations (0.7-million to 1.2-million barrels a day). An additional cut of 0.6-million barrels a day from non-Opec countries could significantly add to what has been announced by Opec." Following the announcements, the price for Brent crude futures, the international benchmark for oil prices, jumped more than 12% from below $50 on Wednesday to $52.31 a barrel at 4.41am GMT. The development also triggered frenzied trading, with Brent futures trading volumes for February and March expiry hitting record volumes. February Brent traded a record 783,000 lots of 1,000 barrels each on Wednesday, easily beating a previous record of just more than 600,000 reached in September. March expiry Brent traded 288,64000 lots of 1,000 barrels each, compared with a previous record of 228,7000 lots done in July 2014. Yet as markets re-opened in Asia on Thursday, some doubts over the cut began to emerge. "This is an agreement to cap production levels, not export levels," British bank Barclays said. "The outcome is consistent with ... what Opec production levels were expected to be in 2017 irrespective of the deal reached." Meanwhile US bank Morgan Stanley said: "Investor scepticism remains on individual countries’ follow-through [on the cut], which is keeping prices below year-to-date highs [of $53.73 a barrel in October] for now." Also, because any cut will take effect only from next year, supplies for the rest of 2016 remain ample. "Supply in December will increase while demand is expected to decline. This makes the foundations of a strong price advance unstable, if not dangerous," commodities brokerage Marex Spectron said. Despite the jump in prices after the deal, they are still only at September-October levels — when plans for a cut were first announced. Oil prices remain at less than half their mid-2014 levels, when the global glut started, and Goldman Sachs said in a note following the agreement that it expected oil prices to average just $55 a barrel in the first half of next year. Opec produces a third of global oil, or about 33.6-million barrels a day, and the deal would reduce output by 1.2-million barrels a day from January 2017. That would take its output to January 2016 levels, when prices fell to more than 10-year lows amid ballooning oversupply. Analysts also said that the cuts would leave the field open for other producers, especially US shale drillers. "We do not believe that oil prices can sustainably remain above $55 a barrel, with global production responding first and foremost in the US," Goldman Sachs said. US crude production has already risen by more than 3% this year to 8.7-million barrels a day, as its drillers have aggressively slashed costs. Consequently, US West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude futures were weaker than Brent, although edging towards $50, trading at $49.81 a barrel at 4.42am GMT. Reuters