Two months ago, I addressed the South African Local Government Association (Salga) Gauteng conference, which also elected its new leadership. Several resolutions were adopted, including the need to enact provincial legislation that ensures Salga is consulted on all policies and laws that have an impact on local government. The Gauteng government supports this important resolution and we will work with Salga’s provincial executive committee to implement it. At the conference, we warned mayors against the tendency by big municipalities to think they do not need Salga. Those municipalities and cities that work in isolation from Salga will not get support from the provincial government. How can they refuse to co-operate with other municipalities and still expect co-operation from other spheres of government? It is naive and narrow-minded to do so. Salga is the collective voice of local government and it must not be undermined by those who pursue narrow political agendas. Without a strong Salga, we cannot have strong towns and cities that are drivers of our provincial, national, regional and continent’s economy. Politics must never be about pomp and ceremony. Politics must never be about the clamour to appear in the media every day. It must never be about spin-doctoring the lived reality and experiences of citizens. Politics cannot be about political parties and politicians. It must be about citizens and their collective aspirations and common destiny. Political parties should just be vehicles for pursuing the goal of serving our citizenry. Politics must be more profound, more transformative and more impactful on the lives of ordinary citizens throughout the length and breadth of our province and our country. It must be about using public policy efficaciously and deploying public resources efficiently and effectively. It must be about the values of service and loyalty to citizens. This is a call to return to value-based politics, without which there can be no honour. Politics must be about helping the youth to realise their dreams through access to better educational and entrepreneurship opportunities so they can live independent and meaningful lives as productive and conscientious citizens. Politics must be about building an economy that creates more jobs and includes blacks, women and youth. Politics must be about building socially cohesive communities where all our citizens and local residents live together in peace and harmony as equals, with equal access to the means to support life. Politics must also be about building an accountable, responsive and clean government. We are not getting clean audits in order to please the auditor-general. We are doing so to make the point that it is good leadership to manage public finances well and account for every rand we collect from taxpayers and ratepayers. Being a councillor is one of the most difficult jobs in our country. People knock at your door any time of day and night and expect an answer. Often, when a national or provincial government fails to deliver the commitments made in pomp and ceremony, the community blames the councillor or the municipality. Co-operative governance is a constitutional imperative that binds us together. We have no choice but to work together in the best interest of the people we serve. Without the co-operation and collaboration of local government, provincial and national government will not succeed. Similarly, local government will not succeed without the co-operation and collaboration of the two other spheres. We are not "celebrity politicians" but servants of the people. In the absence of serving the people honestly and diligently, politics will become embroiled in perennial cynicism and people will believe in anti-establishment parties and politicians. If councillors in local government and we in the provincial government understand what politics is about, as well as what it is not about, and do our best to act in a manner that enhances public confidence, Africa will develop and grow in an inclusive and sustainable way. • Makhura is the premier of Gauteng