Opposition parties in KwaZulu-Natal were crying foul on Tuesday after yet another postponement of the seating of the troubled Nquthu Local Municipality. The meeting had been due to elect mayor, deputy, speaker, chief whip and other officials. The postponement was the result of the failure by ANC and National Freedom Party councillors to arrive for the meeting, citing fear for their lives. KwaZulu-Natal MEC for Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs Nomusa Dube-Ncube then announced the indefinite postponement of the council meeting to allow the security situation to be attended to. During the local government elections in August, the IFP won 15 seats in Nquthu, followed by the ANC (14). The NFP – which was allowed to participate only in the Nquthu areas where it paid a deposit in time — won two proportional representatives (PR) seats, while the EFF and the DA had a single PR seats each. Following the council elections, the IFP, DA and EFF signed a pact that saw the parties voting together against the ANC and for them to co-govern hung municipalities in the province. All other hung municipalities in the province have elected officials, except for Nquthu and uMzinyathi District Municipality. Office bearers in uMzinyathi can only be decided once Nquthu has been able to elect its own leadership and seconded councillors to serve in the district municipality. In the absence of elected officials, Dube-Ncube appointed two administrators to run both municipalities. Dube-Ncube said on Tuesday: "As Cogta, we are determined to facilitate the long overdue election of municipal office bearers at Nquthu but we also consider the personal safety of all stakeholders to be paramount so we note that today’s council sitting had to be cancelled. "We have been looking forward to this meeting in anticipation of a positive outcome at Nquthu, however, the security of all stakeholders is also of paramount importance and cannot be compromised. We cannot ignore security advice and our view is that we are better safe than sorry," she added. But opposition parties rubbished claims over safety concerns, accusing the MEC and the ANC of using delaying tactics to coax opposition members or to work towards a disbandment of the council ahead of fresh elections. Leader of the DA in KwaZulu-Natal Zwakele Mncwango said DA councillors and those in the IFP and the EFF arrived for the meeting to elect the municipal leadership, only to be told that it has been postponed. "This is another example of the ANC blocking the democratic process. It is clear that the security reason is used as ruse. Dube-Ncube must take full responsibility for this delay." Blessed Gwala, IFP’s chairperson and the party’s leader in the KZN Legislature, was even more scathing, saying the ANC was playing "shady political games", leaving affected residents in limbo. "If security can be in place when there are elections throughout the province on one day, then why is it that security cannot be arranged for a meeting of a local municipality?"