Sibanye Gold will pay $2.2bn or about R30bn to buy American platinum and palladium producer Stillwater Mining Company, cementing its role as a major player in the platinum industry and giving it a much-wanted processing plant to deliver finished metal. Sibanye has bought the whole of Aquarius Platinum and the Rustenburg mines that belonged to Anglo American Platinum, consolidating a chunk of the Western Limb of the Bushveld Igneous Complex, which hosts the world’s largest known platinum group metal deposits. The two acquisitions did not come with any refining capacity and both sets of assets could only get metal up to a concentrate level, which had to be toll treated or sold to a third party, in this case Anglo American Platinum. In its third PGM transaction, which gives it geographical diversity away from the risky environments in SA and Zimbabwe, Sibanye said it had reached a "definitive agreement" to buy New York Stock Exchange-listed Stillwater for $18 per share, which it said was a 20% premium to the average of the previous 20 days closing prices. Shareholders in both companies have to vote in favour of the transaction and the deal should close in the second quarter of next year. Sibanye will pay for the deal by a $2.7bn bridge loan and after the deal has closed Sibanye said it would raise new debt and hold a rights issue "with the objective of maintaining its dividend policy and preserving its long-term financial flexibility". Sibanye has secured bridge financing of $2.7bn provided by Citi and HSBC to pay for Stillwater and to repay a number of Stillwater’s debts. "The transaction represents a transformational opportunity for Sibanye to acquire high-quality, low-cost, PGM assets at a favourable point in the cycle," Sibanye CEO Neal Froneman said. Stillwater is based in Colorado and has two underground mines and a metallurgical plant in Montana. The company had the Blitz project to expand production, Froneman said. Stillwater had 25 years of reserves in its portfolio, with further exploration potential to add to that figure, he said. "Stillwater’s Columbus metallurgical processing complex will provide Sibanye with a ‘mine-to-market’ PGM business and the sizeable recycling operation provides a steady margin and strategic market insight," Froneman said. Stillwater’s board, which approved the deal, recommended that its shareholders vote in favour of the transaction, Stillwater CEO Mick McMullen said.