Winning away in the Premier Soccer League (PSL) is tough wherever you are travelling to‚ but off-form Wits can point to a happy hunting ground on their visits to Lamontville Golden Arrows in recent times. Wits are among the favourites for the PSL title this season but have taken just a single point from their last three games after defeats to Cape Town City and SuperSport United and a draw with Highlands Park. Next up for Gavin Hunt’s side is a trip to Golden Arrows on Wednesday‚ a team against whom they have enjoyed fantastic success in Durban over the last decade. Wits’ last eight visits to Arrows have yielded five wins‚ three draws and no defeats‚ dating back to 2008. Arrows last beat Wits in Durban nine years ago‚ making this away day a favourite for the Johannesburg side. Hunt is wary of his team’s slump in form, though‚ but says the results do not fully reflect the performances. "We have let ourselves down in the last three games. It’s been poor from a results perspective but football sometimes goes like that‚" Hunt told reporters. "You’ve got to be brave and stand up. But I will always be honest when we deserve to lose, but that game against Cape Town City [2-3] – not a chance‚ not the slightest of chance. "Highlands Park [2-2] was the same‚ possibly SuperSport [0-2]. Certainly they didn’t deserve to beat us.… " After Arrows‚ Wits’ final two games of the year are at home to Free State Stars and away at Maritzburg United‚ two games they will certainly expect to win if they are to mount a serious title challenge this year. Meanwhile, Ajax Cape Town coach Stanley Menzo believes Wednesday’s clash with Highlands Park could be crucial in shaping the remainder of the season for the Urban Warriors. Ajax have won three games in a row‚ including a 2-0 success over champions Mamelodi Sundowns‚ to lift themselves off the foot of the table. Victory at Highlands Park would continue their rise towards the top eight and be a major boost ahead of the festive season break. But defeat will see them sucked right back into the relegation mix. TMG Digital