Sydney — Asian shares were subdued on Thursday morning with Wall Street having a setback after weeks of gains and a pullback in US yields prompting year-end profit taking in the dollar. Japan’s Nikkei shed 1.3% as the yen firmed and Toshiba dived 16% after news of potential massive writedowns led to a downgrade of its credit ratings. S&P said it expected shareholder equity to "drastically shrink", eroding the conglomerate’s financial resilience. Moves elsewhere were more modest. Australia’s main index recouped early losses to finish flat at a 17-month peak, while stocks in Shanghai added 0.2%. MSCI’s broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan was last up 0.19%. The pullback on Wall Street came amid light volumes, probably reflecting caution about what the New Year might bring with Wednesday the first session when trades actually settle in January. The Dow fell 0.56%, S&P 500 0.84% and the Nasdaq 0.89%. Boeing fell 0.9% after Delta Air Lines cancelled a $4bn order for 18 Dreamliner aircraft. Technology was the heaviest weight on major indexes, with Nvidia down 6.9% after short seller Citron Research said the market was overlooking headwinds for the stock, which earlier touched a record high. Weak home sales data were blamed for some of the selling, though normally this series barely gets a mention in markets. Contracts to buy previously owned US homes fell in November to their lowest level in nearly a year, a hint of how rising mortgage rates could weigh on the housing market. US bonds staged a rare rally as the soft report combined with surprisingly strong demand for a sale of new five-year Treasury notes. Yields on 10-year paper fell to their lowest levels in two weeks to around 2.492%. Yet eurozone yields were also falling on concern about the strength of a rescue plan for Italian banks and normal year-end caution. Germany’s 10-year yields hit their lowest in seven weeks at 0.181%, while their discount to Treasury yields reached the widest on record. The ever-widening yield gap kept the euro restrained around $1.0450, after touching an eight-session trough of $1.0372 overnight. Sterling was also soft at $1.2243 after hitting its lowest level in two months. The dollar eased 0.5% on the yen to 116.75, but was still up 12% over the past two months. In commodity markets, oil came off the boil after data showed a surprise build in US crude inventories. US crude fell 26 cents to $53.80 a barrel, while Brent was last quoted down 4c at $56.18. Reuters