South African employers report cautiously optimistic hiring intentions for the next three months‚ with 13% of employers forecasting an increase in staffing levels. However‚ 5% are expecting a decrease and 80% expect no change. This is according to the Manpower Group Employment Outlook Survey for the first quarter of 2017‚ released on Tuesday. Opportunities for job seekers are expected to be strongest in the electricity‚ gas and water supply sector as well as the restaurants and hotels sector. The weakest growth is expected to be in the construction sector. Provincially‚ employers in the Western Cape report the strongest hiring intentions for the first quarter of the year‚ while employers within Gauteng and KwaZulu-Natal report the weakest hiring intentions. Overall‚ hiring prospects remain relatively stable when compared with the fourth quarter of 2016 and are two percentage points stronger year on year. Manpower SA MD Lyndy van den Barselaar said the beginning of the year was often a high tourist season for the local market due to the year-end spike‚ which explained why the hiring prospects had remained relatively stable. "Certain industries experience a spike in business associated with the annual South African holiday season‚ which could result in increased employment‚ carrying through into [the first quarter] of 2017." Regional comparisons Explaining the regional outlook‚ Van den Barselaar said staffing levels were forecast to increase in all five regions. Employers in Western Cape report the strongest hiring plans with a net employment outlook of +13%. Elsewhere‚ modest payroll gains were expected in the Free State and Eastern Cape‚ with outlooks of+6% and +5%‚ respectively‚ while outlooks of +4% were reported in both Gauteng and KwaZulu-Natal. "The Western Cape’s economy is dominated by the City of Cape Town‚ which is an extremely popular tourist destination for local and international holiday makers‚ especially during the summer months. Employers may be anticipating that this influx of travellers will bode well for businesses in their region‚ which is likely to translate into an upbeat hiring environment for job seekers." When compared with the previous quarter‚ outlooks weaken in three of the five regions‚ declining by five percentage points in both KwaZulu-Natal and Western Cape and by four percentage points in Gauteng. Meanwhile‚ Eastern Cape employers report an improvement of three percentage points. Year on year‚ employers report noteworthy improvements of eight and five percentage points in Western Cape and Eastern Cape‚ respectively. However‚ hiring prospects weaken in two regions‚ with employers reporting declines of five percentage points in KwaZulu-Natal and three percentage points in Gauteng. Sector comparisons Employers in nine of the 10 industry sectors expect to grow staffing levels during the first quarter of 2017. The strongest labour markets are forecast for the electricity‚ gas and water supply sector and the restaurants and hotels sector‚ where net employment outlooks stand at +16% and +14%‚ respectively. Elsewhere‚ employers expect steady job gains in the manufacturing sector‚ where the outlook is +11%‚ and some hiring opportunities in the agriculture‚ hunting‚ forestry and fishing sector‚ with an outlook of +9%. Moderate hiring activity is also forecast for the finance‚ insurance‚ real estate and business services sector and the wholesale and retail trade sector‚ with outlooks of +8% and +6%‚ respectively. However‚ construction sector employers expect employment levels to decline‚ reporting an outlook of -4%. "Owing to the current drought being experienced in SA‚ measures are being taken in the electricity‚ gas and water supply sector to decrease the amount of water used by households and businesses alike. This is believed to be a large contributing factor to the expected growth within this industry‚ as more individuals become educated on the drought‚ and look to put in place measures to reduce their water usage. Those individuals and businesses that operate within this [ambit] will more than likely be experiencing growth‚ and looking to expand within [the first quarter] to keep up with demand‚" said Van den Barselaar. "Meanwhile‚ the growth in the restaurants and hotels sector is related to the amount of local and international tourists and holiday makers making use of local facilities in order to take advantage of the South African summer." When compared with the fourth quarter of 2016‚ hiring intentions strengthen in five of the 10 industry sectors. The most notable increase — nine percentage points — is reported in the restaurants and hotels sector‚ while manufacturing sector employers report an improvement of six percentage points. Outlooks also weaken in five sectors‚ including the wholesale and retail trade sector‚ where employers report a considerable decline of 11 percentage points. Hiring prospects are seven percentage points weaker in both the construction and the transport‚ storage and communication sectors and decline by six percentage points in both the finance‚ insurance‚ real estate and business services and the public and social sectors. Year on year‚ outlooks improve in six of the 10 industry sectors‚ most notably by 10 percentage points in the mining and quarrying sector. Elsewhere‚ increases of seven percentage points are reported in the electricity‚ gas and water supply and the restaurants and hotels sectors‚ while outlooks are five percentage points stronger in the construction and manufacturing sectors. However‚ employers in three sectors report weaker hiring plans. The outlook for the public and social sector declines by eight percentage points while transport‚ storage and the communication sector employers report a decrease of seven percentage points. Large employers expect an upbeat hiring pace‚ reporting a net employment outlook of +18%‚ while some job gains are expected in small and medium-sized firms‚ with outlooks standing at +7%. However‚ micro employers forecast a flat labour market with an outlook of 0%. Globally‚ forecasts are mixed when compared with the surveys for the fourth and first quarters of 2016. Hiring plans improve in 19 of 43 countries and territories when compared quarter on quarter‚ decline in 17‚ and are unchanged in seven. Outlooks strengthen in 20 countries and territories year on year‚ weaken in 18‚ and are unchanged in four. First-quarter hiring confidence is strongest in Taiwan‚ India‚ Japan‚ Hungary and Slovenia. The weakest forecasts are reported in Brazil‚ Switzerland and Italy. TMG Digital