SA’s fifth-largest audit firm is facing a backlog of applications for its partners to be allowed to sign off financial statements of listed companies. This is happening as the JSE considers public comments to proposed amendments of its listings requirements, which would also overhaul the way it approves such applications. Yvonne Kgoedi, director of risk at SizweNtsalubaGobodo (SNG), said the firm had very few JSE-accredited partners. "[This] makes partner rotation and business a challenge," she said. The Independent Regulatory Board for Auditors (Irba) stopped conducting inspections for accreditation purposes in June, stating this interfered with its already heavy workload of overseeing audit quality. Its workload became heavier after the JSE added new requirements for debt issuers, and mandatory audit partner rotations required by the Companies Act kicked in. The JSE has overhauled its accreditation rules and is proposing to shift most of the burden of accreditation from the Irba to the bourse, placing less reliance on the audit regulator’s inspection results. Irba CEO Bernard Agulhas said on Monday: "We will continue to perform the inspections that were already requested by firms, per the prescribed notice period, and where possible will consider assisting firms by special arrangement with any new requests preceding the new requirements." The JSE’s diminished, yet continued, reliance on Irba inspection results in the proposed amendments as still being seen as a stumbling block. The bourse requires partners seeking new accreditations not to have an "unsatisfactory" inspection or a re-inspection within 30 months prior to their application for accreditation. "The main challenge is that Irba inspections are conducted for a different purpose and we believe the use of the inspection results for the purposes of accreditation are inappropriate as these are not intended for the JSE’s use," said Kgoedi. "Irba’s focus is on compliance with professional standards, and often they raise findings on pure documentation issues, which does not necessarily mean that the audit partner is not capable of signing off a listed entity." Kgoedi said the Irba followed a rigorous process for registering auditors. This, along with vigorous procedures by audit firms prior to promoting anyone to an audit partner, were adequate to identify partners who could sign off on listed companies. "The JSE accreditation process — together with the proposed amendments — is therefore seen as a barrier to entry in the audit market of listed entities," she said. "This is regarded as noncompetitive," Kgoedi said. "We would recommend that instead of imposing additional requirements on the competency of the auditor to perform audits, to rather focus on the auditor’s knowledge of the JSE listings requirements and bolster this process."