Yokohama — Cristiano Ronaldo is itching to prove just why he deserved the Ballon d’Or, by leading Real Madrid to another Club World Cup title, according to Zinedine Zidane on Wednesday. The Portuguese superstar, voted the world’s best player for a fourth time earlier this week, will lead Real’s charge in Japan, where the European champions face Mexico’s Club America in Thursday’s semifinal. "Cristiano is hugely motivated for this game — as always," Real coach Zidane said. "Obviously, we have many great players at Real Madrid but it’s very rare one player wins so many awards," added the Frenchman, whose side are chasing their second world title in three years this week. "To win four Ballon d’Ors is a fabulous achievement and it’s not an easy thing to do. What he’s doing is absolutely incredible — maybe he deserves a fifth one too!" Ronaldo closed in on Lionel Messi’s record five awards after a remarkable year in which he helped Real dominate Europe for the 11th time and powered Portugal to European Championship glory. The 31-year-old insisted that if he and Messi played for the same team, he would have scooped more accolades than his Argentinian rival. "It would be interesting to see both of us in the same team," Ronaldo told Spanish media. "I think great players should play together. If we were in the same team, I think I would have more than him, but he wouldn’t be far off. "Everyone knows Messi is a great player," he added. Zidane, whose Spanish table-toppers are on a club record 35-game unbeaten run, is set to leave out captain Sergio Ramos against Club America. "I don’t think he will play," said Zidane, who is looking to bring Real a fifth world crown. "It’s not a serious problem but he’s suffering some fatigue after the long journey and we don’t want to take the risk. We will keep him back for the final." Zidane, who is missing Gareth Bale as the Welshman recovers from ankle surgery, has warned his players against overconfidence against a Club America side celebrating their centennial season. AFP