Bytes from the digital world The good news is SA has managed to keep its investment-grade rating with ratings agencies S&P Global Ratings, Fitch and Moody’s. The bad news the country is now on notice for a downgrade to junk status by all three. Last week’s resignation of Mogale City mayor Lynn Pannall for health reasons places the DA at risk of losing the West Rand council. But the IFP has said it would add its single seat to the DA and EFF for a second time to gain the required 39 seat majority over the ANC’s 38 seats. Matters of debate Tim Cohen is against nuclear power for two main reasons: SA’s arms deal, and his first-hand experience with solar power. He installed the technology eight years ago on a farm in the Karoo. Since then, solar panels have gotten cheaper and more reliable. But the original equipment he bought all those years ago still works. As the anniversary of Nenegate approaches (December 9, don’t forget), it is time to reflect why South African children think President Jacob Zuma will steal their pocket money, writes Sean O’Connor. When the ANC backed its corrupt president for a false unity, it opened the door to DA leader Mmusi Maimane and the EFF’s Julius Malema. It cannot stop them now, writes Justice Malala. The long and the short of the markets The grant tender has been through almost a decade of allegations of corruption and litigation. All along, Sassa has dragged its feet in taking any action that would lead to anyone other than Cash Paymaster Services (CPS), a subsidiary of the American-listed company Net1 UEPS, taking on the task. The DA has called for the R17.3m reportedly paid to PetroSA’s top executives to be paid back immediately, and says the legal opinion that informed this disastrous payment must be made public and tabled before Parliament. The lighter side of the web Graph of the day Through compromise and arm-twisting, Opec oil ministers managed to put flesh on the bones of the output cut they announced in Algeria in September. But their hard work might be undermined by the countries exempted from the deal: Libya and Nigeria. Much of the 1.166-million barrels a day of agreed cuts could be offset by increases from these two countries — at least, if things go as their governments hope. Africa Is OPEC's Biggest Danger