Singapore — Oil prices rose on Monday in anticipation of tighter crude supply going into 2017 following the decision by oil cartel Opec and other producers to cut output to prop up prices. Brent crude futures, the international benchmark for oil prices, were trading at $55.57 a barrel at 4.01am GMT, up 36c, or 0.7%, from their last close. US West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude oil futures were up 43c, or 0.8%, at $52.33 a barrel. Traders said the higher prices in front-month crude futures were due to the expectation of a tighter market. Opec and other producers led by Russia have announced cutbacks of almost 1.8-million barrels a day in oil production from January 2017 in an effort to bolster prices to reduce rampant global overproduction which has seen output outstrip consumption for more than two years. "With investors now expecting a relatively high level of compliance with the production cut agreements, prices should be well supported," ANZ bank said on Monday. "Saudi Arabia has stated its willingness to cut production below 10-million barrels a day if needed (down from around 10.5-million barrels a day currently), which should limit risk to the deal," US bank Morgan Stanley said on Monday, adding that some of the noncompliance risk to the deal to cut output in 2017 came from Iraq, which increased its January loadings versus December. ANZ bank said that "some weakness in US dollar also helped improve [oil] investor sentiment". The dollar has lost 0.8% against a basket of other leading currencies since hitting 2002 highs last week. Swings in the dollar can affect oil demand as they influence fuel prices for any country using its own currency domestically. Despite this, there were factors that weighed on markets, preventing prices — which remain relatively low — from rising more. In the US, which did not participate in the production cut deal, drilling for new oil has increased for seven weeks. Drillers added 12 oil rigs in the week to December 16, bringing the total to 510, the highest since January, though still below 541 rigs a year ago, energy services firm Baker Hughes said on Friday. "Since its trough on May 27, 2016, producers have added 194 oil rigs (+61 percent) in the US," US bank Goldman Sachs said. As a result, US oil production is edging up, rising from less than 8.5-million barrels a day in July to almost 8.8-million barrels a day by mid-December. Reuters