Harmony Gold was closing in on an acquisition to grow its production to 1.5-million ounces in three years, narrowing its focus to possible targets, CE Peter Steenkamp said on Wednesday. Harmony had set itself the target of adding to its annual 1-million ounce gold output as it started closing old mines in SA, taking at least 200,000oz out of its South African production base in the next five years and depriving it of critical mass to raise capital and to do deals, he said in an interview. Harmony needs to find two or three mines to deliver up to 700,000oz of gold a year and Steenkamp acknowledged that Harmony was in the market at a time when competition for gold ounces, reserves and assets was fierce and expensive. "Harmony cannot go without an acquisition. We have to find it. It’s not a nice-to-have. We will find it. We are working flat out on targets right now," Steenkamp said. "We have looked in Papua New Guinea, SA and Africa. We went through quite a big exercise of going through suitable targets we won’t overpay for and are near-term production. So we funnelled it down to a few targets and we have identified two that we want and we are working on those two," he said. Some of the major global gold miners have put mines up for sale to cut large debt. "We are looking for similar things from the majors who are rationalising their portfolios and we will continue doing that," he said. As part of its work to mitigate the fall in production, Harmony has bought its equal partner and Australia’s largest gold producer, Newcrest Mining, out of its Hidden Valley joint venture in Papua New Guinea for just $1 and it is looking at a number of projects in SA. The Hidden Valley mine has been a problematic asset for years and did not fit Newcrest’s strategy under its new CE, Sandeep Biswas, who was reluctant to make a further investment in the mine to expand the pit, something Harmony has now taken on under Steenkamp who used to be chief operating officer at the company before he went to platinum and coal companies. While the deal was unpopular with some analysts, Steenkamp said: "I can’t think of better opportunities out there for us. We’ve paid a lot of money on school fees at this mine and why should it go to someone else now. This is a reserve that has to be in the hands of Harmony alone. It will be 20% of our production so it will be an important asset for us." Harmony and Newcrest had fixed most of the problems bedeviling the mine for years and in recent months had delivered on its targets. Harmony will invest $180m over three years to expand the pit to bring production up to 180,000oz.