Whether a budget is a good one or a bad one often takes a bit of time to become evident, as markets and analysts process the numbers and digest the implications. The response by the ratings agencies to the medium-term budget that Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan delivered last week seems to indicate that while SA is under increasing pressure to deliver on its promises of reform, the budget may have been good enough to stave off a ratings downgrade to junk status, at least for now. Nonetheless, SA should probably brace itself for a negative rating action from at least one of the agencies, possibly Fitch, before the end of 2016. On the upside, Fitch, like S&P Global Ratings, has SA’s sovereign credit rating at just one above junk. Unlike S&P, Fitch has a stable outlook on the rating — so the chances are it will put SA on negative outlook as a first step to a possible downgrade, rather than downgrading now. Fitch does not have to stick to a ratings calendar, so we have no indication of when, or if, it will provide an update. But Fitch analyst Jan Friederich made clear the agency’s unhappiness with Gordhan’s efforts, saying they would not stem rising debt. In its postbudget note, it recognised that fiscal consolidation remained a government priority but said the tightening measures "will be insufficient to avoid a further delay in stabilising debt to GDP ratios given low economic growth". It gave Gordhan credit for the new consolidation measures including additional spending reductions and (unspecified) tax hikes that together with what was announced in February imply a total fiscal adjustment for 2017 of R48bn, or 1% of GDP.  But Fitch emphasised that the government itself now expected the debt level to peak a year later and higher than forecast in February, at 53% in financial 2018-19. Fitch expressed scepticism about structural reforms and wariness about 2017, when the government will be trying to hike revenue ahead of the ANC’s electoral conference, and Friederich highlighted the government’s very limited fiscal space. The Fitch note seemed more cautious than the Moody’s note, which began by saying that fiscal consolidation was "mostly on track", though would continue to be challenged by slow progress and uncertainty on structural reforms to support growth. Moody’s was a lot sharper about the risk to budget delivery including lower than expected growth, emerging wage pressures and financially weak state-owned enterprises. Moody’s is less of a concern because it has SA rated two notches above junk status, so there is wiggle room, even though it has the outlook on negative. The main concern is S&P, which has the rating just above junk and on negative outlook. S&P analyst Gardner Rusike described the budget as "neutral", which seems relatively encouraging even though, like the others, he warned about the risks, the debt and the dearth of structural reforms. SA will remain on the cusp of a downgrade as long as the government fails to effect the kinds of policies that will boost investor confidence and growth. Gordhan and his team took a risk with the budget. He let the ratios slide somewhat in an effort to balance tightening up with the need not to bring the economy to a standstill. Whether the ratings agencies will buy that is a question. But perhaps the politics of last week’s budget will loom as large as the economics and the ratios in the ratings agencies’ decisions. They have been closely watching the ratings triggers of the Treasury’s institutional stability and the stability of Gordhan’s own position. The standing ovations that Gordhan received in the National Assembly and the question marks over the Hawks case against him could work in SA’s favour, for now.