Abashiri, winner of last season’s Triple Crown but unplaced in the Vodacom Durban July, has been priced up 10-1 second favourite for the R2m Sansui Summer Cup to be run at Turffontein on November 26. Bookies clearly have plenty of respect for this talented inmate of Michael Azzie’s stable whose July no-show was predicted by most pundits due to the three-year-old’s big weight. Interestingly, it is Abashiri’s former stablemate, Rabada, who heads the Summer Cup market at 7-1. Rabada, who races in the colours of leading owner Markus Jooste, was transferred from Azzie’s stable to that of Brett Crawford at the end of last season. The four-year-old is currently in trainer Mike de Kock’s stable and is expected to make his seasonal bow in the R1m Peermont Emperors Palace Charity Mile on November 5. Two of Sean Tarry’s powerful team, Liege and Samurai Blade, share third favouritism at 12-1. This looks an attractive price about Liege, considering Tarry’s comment after his recent win that "he’s possibly my main Summer Cup horse". Stanley Ferreira’s talented filly Juxtapose, winner of last season’s SA Fillies Classic, is on offer at 14-1. This price will shorten if the four-year-old wins the second race at Turffontein on Saturday. That looks a tough task for Juxtapose as she faces two strong rivals in Negroamaro (Anton Marcus) and Querari Falcon (Anthony Delpech). Trainer Geoff Woodruff has an outstanding record in the Summer Cup and 2015’s winner, Master Sabina and Deo Juvente are both quoted at 16-1, along with Durban July third Mac De Lago. Racing Association CEO Larry Wainstein has issued a media release following the furore over Piere Srydom’s omission from the SA side for November’s two international meetings. "I need to make it clear I do not pick the team alone. We have a panel of four of which I am chairman. The other members were Vee Moodley, Clyde Basel and Neil Smith," he said. "The way we chose the field was to choose the top four on the log at the end of last season. They were S’manga Khumalo, Andrew Fortune, Anthony Delpech and Anton Marcus. When Anton told us he was not available for personal reasons, we then moved on to No5 on the log and that was Muzi Yeni. "We then have the two wild cards and the panel came down to Gavin Lerena, Piere Strydom and Grant van Niekerk. "For the last seven years Piere has been there and we felt it time to give the youngsters a chance. The decision to leave Piere out was not taken lightly," he said.