BEIJING — Ukrainian Elina Svitolina scored her second win this year over a world No1, ousting Angelique Kerber in the round of 16 in Beijing on Thursday. Svitolina, ranked 19th in the world, took just two sets to beat No1 Kerber — who ascended to the top spot at the US Open, where she claimed her second Grand Slam crown — with a 6-3 7-5 win. The 22-year-old left Serena Williams in tears in Rio de Janeiro in August, denying the 22-time Grand Slam champion a fifth Olympic gold medal with a win in straight sets. Kerber, who had her right thigh taped, took a break lead in each set but appeared glued to the baseline during the match and was unable to take control. The German still plans to play in Hong Kong next week as she chases points to end the year at No1 — but her right leg may alter her plans. "Still, it’s in my schedule to play Hong Kong. It’s right after the match, so I don’t know exactly with my leg or whatever. But it’s in my schedule," she said. Briton Johanna Konta secured her first win over US Open finalist Karolina Pliskova in a tie-break in the third set, triumphing 6-1 3-6 7-6 (7/2). Her victory over the sixth-ranked Czech moves Konta — currently at No14 — closer to breaking into the top 10 for the first time. The win also moves the 25-year-old into 10th position in the race for the eight-player WTA Final in Singapore, meaning she could play if a few of the eight drop out. But if fellow quarterfinalist Petra Kvitova, currently 12th in the race, continues her stellar Asian run, the Briton could be nudged out. Agnieszka Radwanska sealed her second consecutive win over former No1 Caroline Wozniacki to reach the quarterfinals. The pair have met three times in as many weeks, with Wozniacki coming out on top in the first encounter in Tokyo. Wozniacki went on to bag the title in the Japanese capital, but Radwanska ended her seven-match winning streak at last week’s Wuhan Open by ousting the Dane in the round of 16. Third-ranked Radwanska booked her quarterfinal spot in the China Open on the third match point. The Pole took the match 6-3 6-1. AFP