Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan delivers the medium-term budget on Wednesday and there will be keen interest in whether the state is containing its bloated wage bill, developments regarding state-owned entities and any announcement on higher education. The Treasury reprioritised R16bn for higher education in the February medium-term budget. Will it yield more as fires continue to rage at campuses? The 2016 medium-term budget is no doubt the economic story of the week and will dwarf other scheduled statistical releases. But the stage is set for Gordhan to render what many analysts see as one of the toughest mini-budgets in living memory, not least because of recent developments regarding the higher education funding crisis and the fact that SA Inc is stuck in a low-growth cycle. Also, the 2016 medium-term budget comes less than two months before SA’s sovereign credit ratings are reviewed, making it crucial because the ratings agencies will be watching for deviations that might seal the country’s fate and fast-track its plunge to a sub-investment-grade rating. The agencies are going to look for concrete action to grow the economy, bring down debt and fiscal discipline. Soon after the August local government elections, S&P Global Ratings cautioned the government against pursuing populist policies to retain popular support following the ANC’s electoral losses. Momentum Investments economist Sanisha Packirisamy predicts that S&P Global Ratings will downgrade the country to sub-investment grade in nine months because sluggish GDP growth poses a risk to fiscal consolidation and debt stabilisation. Euler Hermes Group chief economist Ludovic Subran said: "I hope for a budget which is progressive on taxes, strong on infrastructure and support for innovation eco-systems. One has to tighten the belt slightly." Gordhan is set to revise down his February growth targets for 2016 and the next two years. He is also likely to revise the budget deficit targets upwards from the 3.2% of GDP estimated in February for 2016-17. The government wants to bring down the budget deficit over the next three years by keeping spending on a tight leash. It could also raise taxes to help close the budget deficit. Personal income and the so-called sin taxes have been raised to bring more money into the state purse in order to close the gap between government spending and revenue. A day after the medium-term budget, Statistics SA is due to release the producer inflation for September on Thursday. Producer inflation is expected to have slowed slightly from 7.2% year on year in August.