Kaizer Chiefs might have had a good run to sit atop the Premier Soccer League (PSL)‚ but they could not afford even a hint of "cockiness" in Saturday’s Soweto derby against Orlando Pirates at FNB Stadium‚ said Amakhosi coach Steve Komphela. Pirates-Chiefs matches, with the immensity of the occasion of one of Africa’s two biggest derbies, have a reputation for turning recent form on its head. Chiefs come into the game having won four PSL games in a row‚ gaining in confidence with each victory after a stuttering start to the season. "We appreciate the run. We are thankful about it, we’re getting results‚" Komphela said. "But we have to be careful. You don’t go there cocky — [or] you’re going to get hurt." Komphela said notching three points to continue Amakhosi’s momentum was as important for his side as earning a victory over their Soweto rivals. "We’re sitting on 13 points and want to make it 16. The bigger the number‚ the more it gives you confidence — and we want to do exactly that‚" Chiefs’ coach said. "But it’s not just sweet talk. It’s got to be done on Saturday. "We hope we play a good game‚ an entertaining game‚ with goals‚ win the match‚ get three points and march on." The hype surrounding the derby has been significantly reduced as it follows Mamelodi Sundowns’ 3-1 aggregate CAF Champions League final victory over Zamalek. Often that hype is blamed for derbies where both Chiefs and Pirates appear more intent on not losing than trying to win. "Let’s hope this narrative holds — where you say there’s been less hype‚ so the players can go in‚" Komphela said. "Basically it’s a principle of nature and energy that if you are too tense you won’t perform. "Tension is created by talk. So‚ less talk‚ more energy‚ because there is no tension. "But whether you like it or not‚ when the players wake up on Saturday morning‚ and pull the curtain open‚ reality strikes. "When you drive to the stadium‚ as you get on the field‚ you feel the energy. "One way or another it does get back to you. "But it is important for athletes and sports professionals to have anxiety‚ not fear." TMG Digital