The nonalcoholic beverages industry looks set for a shake-up as The Coca-Cola Company (TCCC) prepares to undo the effective 40-year-old relationship it has had with SABMiller. The shake-up could inject some competitive vigour into a market long dominated by the powerful combined muscle of SABMiller and Coca-Cola. The strength of that combination can be seen in the inability of Pepsi Cola to make inroads into the South African market despite a number of attempts post-1994. Within hours of Anheuser-Busch InBev (AB InBev) announcing the completion of its $104bn acquisition of SABMiller, TCCC announced it was exercising a change of control option relating to its African bottling operations. That option allowed TCCC to take over the 57% stake in its bottling and distribution operations owned by SABMiller. The stake is held in Coca-Cola Beverages Africa (CCBA). TCCC already has 11% of CCBA and Gutsche Family Investments, a private entity, holds the remaining 31.7%. The move by TCCC will leave South African Breweries without exposure to nonalcoholic beverages for the first time in 40 years. During those years, Coca-Cola products as well as SABMiller’s own Appletiser and Lecol, held in Amalgamated Beverage Industries, provided an attractive top-up to the core beer profits. And during that time, key SABMiller executives such as Mark Bowman were given responsibility for the operation. CCBA, which only formally came into existence in July 2016 after a marathon 18-month engagement with the competition authorities, was created to provide "a stronger, more successful Coca-Cola system in Africa," said CCBA CEO Doug Jackson. "As one operation,, CCBA will better serve our consumers and communities in Africa, offering consumers greater choice, broader availability and better value." It will produce and distribute approximately 40% of all Coca-Cola beverages in Africa and will be the 10th largest Coca-Cola bottler worldwide. The "one operation" model may better serve consumers, but TCCC has now decided it will do this with a different driver. "While the company respects ABI’s [AB InBev’s] capabilities," said TCCC in its recent press statement, "it has a number of existing partners who are highly qualified and interested in these bottling territories." TCCC is also negotiating with potential new partners. TCCC’s announcement made no specific mention of Appletiser, which SABMiller bought in 1982, but an AB InBev spokesperson confirmed Appletiser SA assets had been transferred to CCBA and the Appletiser brand had been sold to TCCC. Appletiser’s future seems to lie with CCBA. TCCC’s dramatic move was not unexpected. There are two main reasons why TCCC could not accommodate SABMiller’s new owners. One is that AB InBev has strong ties with Pepsi Co including being its anchor bottler in Latin America. The second, and possibly more significant, reason is the possibility that TCCC is AB InBev’s next big takeover target. "TCCC must know a bid by AB InBev is on the cards," said London-based analyst Trevor Stirling of Bernstein Research. "The idea of them having a potential hostile acquirer as a key partner in Africa is not something that would sit well with TCCC," Stirling said. SABMiller’s new controllers feign indifference to the pending loss of CCBA — right now they’re focused on beer, they say. They will not be drawn on the prospect of relaunching Pepsi in the domestic market. The prospect of a takeover of TCCC would certainly complicate plans for a near-term African-based tie-up with Pepsi but the attraction of nonalcoholic beverages may prove irresistible. It is also possible the South African competition authorities might struggle to give their blessing to an AB InBev-TCCC merger. That the CCBA deal took 18 months to get sign-off from the Competition Tribunal, compared with just six months for the massive beer deal, reveals concerns about the market power that comes with the creation of that "one operation".