The big day has arrived and we have switched over to our brand-new Business Day website. We are sure you will enjoy the experience. The first thing you will notice is that the site is now called "Business Day" because it carries all the content from the Business Day newspaper. Check in with us in the morning to read the newspaper stories and then stay with us through the day as we update the site with all the news that's important to South Africa's decision-makers. If you are viewing this site on your mobile or on a tablet you will notice that – unlike the old BDlive site – it automatically adjusts to your screen size, making it easy to scroll to the stories you want to read. This is one of the many innovations introduced by our developers who have worked extremely hard to create a modern, clean and easy-to-navigate website. The good news is that all of your favourite features are here. Use the menu in the top right-hand corner to help you find what you are looking for. And, if you register for free, you can have your say in the article comments section that we have brought back by popular demand. But there's much, much more for you to read and enjoy. The Business Day site is part of a family of high-powered business and politics titles that comprise the brand-new BusinessLIVE family. When you click on the BusinessLIVE logo (to the left of the Business Day masthead) you’ll get to see the best of Business Day along with content from our other business titles. More about BusinessLIVE BusinessLIVE is the ultimate home for South Africa’s discerning business readers, publishing stories from Business Day, the Financial Mail, the Sunday Times’s Business Times, and Investors Monthly in one place along with video from our multimedia team and Business Day TV. It is updated throughout the day by the expert journalists in our business newsroom and by our fast news team. Coming soon: BL Premium We would also like to introduce you to BusinessLIVE Premium, which will be for subscribers only. The BL Premium section will include the top columnists from our business publications as well as full digital access to The Wall Street Journal, a selection of daily top articles from the Financial Times, and all of Morningstar's incredible share and unit trust data. Here’s the good news: if you register now on BusinessLIVE or Business Day, you will be able to try out BL Premium for free until the end of October. New Business Day app We have also launched a new version of our app – previously titled BDlive but also now simply labelled Business Day. Get it now to enjoy the new design, video support, greatly improved load times and plenty of bug fixes. For those of you who have the current BDlive application installed, if your app hasn't automatically updated, you can manually update it via Apple’s App Store or the Google Play store. Any questions? Email feedback@bdlive.co.za and we’ll do our best to answer.