London — Polish billionaire Sebastian Kulczyk said he could use some of the proceeds from the sale of his 1.5% stake in SABMiller to bid for the brewer’s central and eastern European assets and to create a world-renowned Polish information technology company. Kulczyk also told Reuters he believed his chemical firm Ciech that he bought from the Polish state two years ago, could become a medium-sized European company within five years. Kulczyk Investments, one of Europe’s biggest private investment firms that he co-owns with his sister Dominika, is set to receive more than £1bn from the sale of its remaining 1.5% stake in SABMiller as a result of the $100bn-plus takeover by Anheuser-Busch InBev. The steep fall in sterling after Britain’s vote in June to leave the EU has reduced the value of Kulczyk’s pound-denominated stake, but Kulczyk Investments had fortunately already sold £1bn worth of shares in the brewer in April. Asked if he was looking at SABMiller’s assets in eastern Europe, Kulczyk said: "This would be a beautiful history if our investment comes full circle .... We know the assets well as we have built them up. We know the management, we know the market." In bidding for the assets, he would face steep competition in a competitive auction that is already attracting interest from a range of brewers and large private equity funds. Sebastian’s father, Jan, made his first investments in the beer business in the 1990s when he bought Polish breweries from the state and then attracted South African Breweries International as a partner. ABI will sell SAB’s businesses in Hungary, Romania, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Poland. Analysts estimate the assets could be valued at up to €7bn. The sale process is expected to start later in October. "I think that my father would be proud. This would be a great culmination for our beer investment," said Kulczyk, 36. He added that his company would be a "dream partner" for international investors looking to team up to bid for the assets. Reuters