IN A strange way, ill-discipline in the All Blacks camp may have equalised matters between New Zealand and SA ahead of their clash at Kings Park on Saturday. All Black scrumhalf Aaron Smith’s "toiletgate" scandal rocked the visiting camp after the mercurial halfback was sent home following leaked footage of an incident of debauchery that took place in a public restroom after the match against the Boks in Christchurch three weeks ago. While TJ Perenara’s promotion into the starting lineup is hardly anything for the Boks to celebrate, Smith’s absence in the All Black team will be felt. Fate has also pitted Perenara against Lions scrumhalf Faf de Klerk, who will start alongside Morné Steyn at halfback following Rudy Paige’s concussion. Perenara wiped the floor with De Klerk in two Super Rugby encounters between the Hurricanes and Lions this season. The Hurricanes put 50 points past the Lions at Ellis Park before beating them in Wellington in the final. On both occasions, De Klerk could not match Perenara’s intensity and speed of delivery. "I don’t think Smith’s omission is a positive at all for us because TJ has been in excellent form throughout Super Rugby and he’s a good All Black scrumhalf as well," said Bok coach Allister Coetzee. "When it comes to the speed of the game and support play, he’s brilliant. He’s got pace and you saw last week [against Argentina] that he finished off a brilliant try. He’s a classy scrumhalf. "Faf de Klerk might be a different scrumhalf to Rudy Paige but the basics of the game stay the same. He’s got to have accurate service, he’s got to give good clean ball and make sure he gets the ball to Morné Steyn quickly to give him enough time and space to mitigate their pressing game. De Klerk needs to make sure that quality ball goes to the backs." When he named his match 23 on Thursday, Coetzee said the tradition between the two nations dictated that the Boks be up for this one, despite the gulf in class that separates the two sides. Coetzee was at his calmest he has been since he took the reins at the start of the international season against Ireland in June. Perhaps the win against the Wallabies last weekend has given him renewed belief that his players have their fight back. There is still a pessimistic air in Durban ahead of Saturday’s clash but Coetzee said the magnitude of the encounter was not lost on the players. "We are playing against the world’s best team," he said. "They’ve had the most continuity in coaching structures and player and great systems in place. But our motivation comes from within, not from people who want to write us off or to prove to other people. That’s not how Springboks operate. We understand the tradition and rivalry between the All Blacks and SA. If you hear about how much respect the All Blacks have for the Springboks, and vice-versa, from players that have gone before us, then you will understand that we will be up for this game. "Our game plan might not be the finished product but it’s a work in progress. I want this team to go out and perform." Jesse Kriel’s failure to recover from a groin strain means the Stormers’ duo of Damian de Allende and Juan de Jongh will start together for the first time at centre at national level. "Juan has been the livewire when it comes to our defensive organisation. His communication has given us confidence. It is the first time they are combining together, so I’m looking forward to seeing how they perform. "Last year Damian was rated by you guys [the media] as the world’s best No12. What he did was simple: he dominated the gainline. New Zealand want to win the battle at the gain line as well. "There might be a bit of rain in the morning in Durban, meaning footwork might not be a crucial thing and nice, hard running straight into the defence might be more effective. Damian is the man for that job," said Coetzee.