In a week of dismal news from DiamondCorp, the company said a potential funder had withdrawn from talks because of the drop in its share price caused by a series of updates about the difficulties in bringing the new Lace diamond mine into commercial production. On Wednesday, DiamondCorp, which is developing an underground kimberlite mine near Kroonstad in the Free State, told the market it was in advanced talks to finalise a convertible debt facility for £500,000 "for immediate financial commitments in order to continue trading as a going concern in the very near term". However, on Friday, DiamondCorp said the steep fall in its share price this week had prompted the potential funder to terminate talks. DiamondCorp’s shares have fallen 60% in London in the past five days, bringing its decline for 2016 so far to 75%. It has a market capitalisation of £7.9m. In Johannesburg, the share fell 50% in the past five days to 42c and its loss in 2016 to date is 76%, giving it a R201m market capitalisation. "The company is in accelerated discussions with certain of the company’s shareholders and other third parties with a view to securing the necessary additional funding of about £500,000 to satisfy immediate financial commitments," it said. "In the absence of a successful resolution to these discussions, it is likely that the group will be unable to continue trading as a going concern in the very near term," it said, warning it could give shareholders no assurance that the funding would be secured. "Additionally, in the event that the company secures the required immediate-term funding, there can be no certainty that the company will subsequently secure the necessary funding solutions to meet its longer-term financial requirements as previously announced." On Wednesday, DiamondCorp said it wanted to raise up to £3m to bring its mine into commercial production and positive cash flows. At the same time, it told shareholders of underground drilling difficulties that meant a delay in achieving commercial production until February. On Thursday, it told the market of a safety stoppage at Lace. "It certainly does seem to be a case of it pouring when it rains. Clearly, the stoppage came at the worst possible time and will make funding that much more difficult and expensive. My only surprise is that the shares have not sunk further than they have today," said an analyst On Friday, the shares fell to a fresh all-time low in London intraday trading of 1.125p before recovering to 1.675p. DiamondCorp has arranged with a major lender, the South African state-owned Industrial Development Corporation, to delay capital repayments on its loan until later in 2017. Analysts have questioned whether a statement that the company was looking outside the UK and SA for diamond mining and corporate finance skills to put into senior executive positions signalled the end of Paul Loudon’s tenure as CEO of the company. On Thursday, DiamondCorp said it was considering legal action to lift a safety stoppage order from the Department of Mineral Resources that was expected to shut its mine for a week after a dump truck caught fire but was quickly extinguished with no injuries reported. Underground drilling complications meant commercial production of 30,000 tonnes of kimberlite ore a month was delayed until February and output will be at half those levels for the balance of 2016.