Springbok coach Allister Coetzee answered a few public calls by appointing players who have been banging incessantly on the Springbok door when he named his squad for November’s end-of-year tour to Europe. Rohan Janse van Rensburg, Uzair Cassiem, Cheslin Kolbe, Thomas du Toit, Jean-Luc de Preez and RG Snyman were some of the names Coetzee pencilled in for the clash against the Barbarians at Wembley in London on November 5. Coetzee named a separate squad for the international against England, Italy and Wales, which included some favourites such as Free State Cheetahs flyer Sergeal Petersen, Francois Venter and budding Blue Bulls fetcher Roelof Smit. "I see this as a great opportunity for a lot of young players to get a taste of international rugby and taste of the Springbok culture," Coetzee said. "It is also a great reward for consistent, good performances during Super Rugby and the Currie Cup. That is the positive thing about not having many of our overseas-based internationals. I’m really excited about it. "We’ve got a 30-man squad that will work hard in preparation for the Barbarians this week. We have to make sure that we get off to a good start on our overseas tour; it’s important. "The game against the Baabaas will set a good platform for the rest of the tour. I’m excited about the young talent, although a lot of players are unlucky not to have made the squad. "A Currie Cup final is not the benchmark for selection. It’s about consistent performances throughout the season. Certain players played well on Saturday and others didn’t. A team has to be selected and approved two weeks in advance. We will see, going forward, who are the guys that can make it at this level." On the balance of the results and performances, the Boks have had a season they would rather forget. South African rugby’s ills came to a nadir in the record 57-15 defeat to the all-conquering All Blacks in Durban earlier in October. Coetzee has pressed a reset button that should have long been activated in SA. He assembled many rugby stakeholders and people of influence at a coaching indaba last week to map a way forward for his team and the sport in the country. With the gap between SA and New Zealand ever increasing, the mother body has stopped tarrying and decided to group various franchises together in the hope that there will be better synergy among the unions. "There will be no egos and that’s the one thing that came out of the coaching indaba," said Coetzee. "We’ve been living in our own little kingdoms, thinking we are all chefs. It made us poorer as a rugby nation. We’ve battled to catch up with the rest of the rugby world."