Undoubtedly the biggest news this week is the reveal of the new Mercedes-Benz X-Class. After teasing design sketches and numerous spy shots doing the rounds, Motor News finally got to see the latest addition to the Merc range in the metal in Stockholm. Based on the upcoming new Nissan Navara, Mercedes showed two concepts, one which it terms the "Stylish Explorer" is more of an urban lifestyle version. The other, named the "Powerful Adventurer", is for those who plan to take their Merc off the beaten track. The stylish one boasts clean lines and an interior that would not look out of place in a C-Class. It is clearly aimed more at those who occasionally get their bakkie dirty, while the adventure model is for those who rarely keep it clean. The adventure concept has a higher ride height, massive knobbly tyres, more plastic cladding and front and rear winches. Inside there is none of the wood of the stylish version, replaced by more durable leather and plastic. And there is a fire extinguisher mounted on the dashboard for those brave enough to take their Samsung Galaxy Note 7 into the bush with them. Both are concept models, although not too far off what we expect to be the final production versions. Expect the new X-Class in SA in 2018. Still going strong Still with the bakkie market, it appears that the Toyota Land Cruiser 70 is far from being retired. Instead, Toyota will introduce an updated version featuring an even stronger frame, thicker body panels, uprated suspension and safety features including more airbags and vehicle stability control. The LC 70 will also get engine upgrades which are claimed to provide a saving of up to 10.1% in fuel consumption. Give us a brake Something equally spacious when it comes to load carrying is the Jaguar XF Sportbrake. Okay, perhaps not quite a capable when it comes to lugging loads as a Land Cruiser, but definitely better looking. Jag is currently testing the new version of its XF Sportbrake, which is expected to debut at the 2017 Frankfurt Motor Show. Expect styling cues to mainly come from the new XF itself, but the Sportbrake could get some major changes under the skin and be available as a plug-in hybrid. Sadly, none of this matters to us here in SA, because a spokesperson for Jaguar Land Rover SA has confirmed there are no plans to bring it to our shores. Pocket rocket Remember the Renault Clio V6 with its mid-mounted engine, incredible performance and terrifying handling? Hyundai has been threatening to do something slightly similar since it debuted the RM14 a couple of years ago. This year it showed the RM 16, with the RM meaning Racing Mid-ship. Based on the Veloster, the company is busy testing this pocket rocket at the notorious Nurburgring. If it goes to market it is likely to only be as a customer race car, but we are hoping that the company might see fit to do some sort of road version. After all, what could possibly go wrong with a mid-engined Veloster, with a 2.0l turbocharged engine pushing 220kW to the rear wheels through a six-speed gearbox? Build it, Hyundai. Tick for tech As cars become as much about technology hubs as they are about driving, it will come as no surprise that someone has created a car technology award. CarBuyer in the UK decided to put the two elements together and launch the first Car Tech awards. And the overall winner? Volvo. The Swedish car maker received the top award for Tech Brand of the Year as well as two other awards for user-friendly tech and audio systems.