As open conflict broke out in the ANC at the weekend over the prosecution of Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan, prominent business leaders took the unusual step of mobilising to support the minister and to warn of dangerous signs of slippage in SA’s economic institutions. The CEO Initiative, which includes the CEOs of 80 leading SA companies, pledged support for the embattled Gordhan in adverts published in Sunday newspapers, and is part of a strong contingent of business organisations planning to be at the Pretoria Magistrate’s Court on November 2 when Gordhan appears in court. In a separate move, Freedom Under Law and the Helen Suzman Foundation filed an urgent application on Sunday to have the charges against Gordhan set aside because they lack foundation, following the failure of National Director of Public Prosecutions Shaun Abrahams to provide them with more information about the charges, or to withdraw them voluntarily. The charges against Gordhan relate to the early retirement and subsequent re-employment of former South African Revenue Service (Sars) deputy commissioner Ivan Pillay that the two organisations say "at best reveal dizzying incompetence at the National Prosecuting Authority and the Hawks. At worst, they confirm our suspicions: that the criminal justice system is being undermined to serve particular political interests." The November 2 court case, if it goes ahead, will also be marked by protests by the Save South Africa campaign, which has called for a People’s Assembly Against State Capture in Pretoria on the day of Gordhan’s court case. The campaign, which has been endorsed by organisations such as Corruption Watch, Section 27, Lawyers for Human Rights and church groups, plans to protest outside the court, march and to picket. Faith-based groups are planning night vigils on November 1. The business and civil society support for Gordhan has come as ANC chief whip Jackson Mthembu called on the ANC’s national executive committee to quit for having failed its members following the party’s loss of support in the local government elections, and, according to Sunday reports, openly accused President Jacob Zuma at the ANC’s national working committee meeting of using state resources to fight Gordhan. Mthembu’s comments add to statements by ANC secretary-general Gwede Mantashe as well as several Cabinet ministers and other senior ANC leaders in support of Gordhan. Mthembu also shouldered blame for not having spoken up earlier and said the NEC owed former finance minister Nhlanha Nene an apology for having kept quiet in December when Nene was dismissed. The CEO Initiative pledged at the weekend to oppose the prosecution of Gordhan. "We stand as one for the rule of law and against the decision to prosecute the minister of finance on charges that are, according to the preponderance of expert legal opinion, without factual or legal foundation and not in the public interest. "We stand against the damage this has caused to our economy and to the people of South Africa, especially the poor." The CEOs who signed the pledge are from SA’s largest companies as well as Business Unity SA, Business Leadership SA, the Black Business Council, the Chamber of Mines and the Johannesburg Stock Exchange. Goldman Sachs SA MD Colin Coleman said the CEO Initiative pledge was the clearest and most organised statement yet by business in defence of democracy and the integrity of the country’s economic institutions. It was made as credit ratings agencies were reviewing SA’s sovereign rating and when there was a threat of this rating being downgraded to junk status. "We are sending a very strong signal that we will stand our ground. We are drawing a line in the sand."