DiamondCorp’s share price fell more than 30% in London on news of further delays at its new Lace mine in the Free State, capital raising, debt restructuring and pending additions to the executive management. The company has been struggling to bring the mine into commercial production for a number of years. The shares fell to an all-time low of 2.1p on Wednesday before pulling back to 2.875p, as the shares plunged 30% during the session and brought the decline so far in 2016 to 57%, the largest drop in its peer group. DiamondCorp, which is listed in London and Johannesburg, said it had further pushed back the target date for commercial production, citing difficulties with extracting enough tonnages, due to drilling constraints. "The slower production ramp up means that the build-up in diamond inventory will be lower than budget, resulting in either smaller diamond sales or a rescheduling of tender sales, either way increasing pressure on group cash flow," DiamondCorp said. Management is putting a convertible debt facility in place to urgently raise £500,000 for "immediate financial commitments in order to continue trading as a going concern in the very near term". It will raise up to £3m more in either debt or equity to bring its mine into commercial production, which is expected to be early in 2017. "As to the share reaction, this is in my opinion due to the fear of further dilution. There is clearly significant technical risk and the company will be pressed for cash, so I would not be surprised if investors demand a sizeable discount," said Yuen Low from Shore Capital Mining in London. "There have now been a number of slippages to the schedule that have required top-up financings," Low said. DiamondCorp said it was in talks with parties outside the UK and SA to "significantly strengthen" the balance sheet and recruit experts in diamond mine development and corporate finance to "key executive roles". A UK-based analyst, who declined to be named for company policy reasons, said: "The announcement certainly seems to hint at a substantial change afoot and if such changes were to happen any provider of capital may have a different agenda to current management." DiamondCorp is in talks with the Industrial Development Corporation, one of its major creditors, to delay capital repayments due to start in the first half of 2017, until the company starts generating cash when the mine generates 100,000 tonnes of kimberlite later in 2017.