When former finance minister Trevor Manuel tabled SA&rsquo;s first medium-term budget in December 1997, he intended to make the budget process more transparent and predictable, and to open it up to public debate. As Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan gears up to table SA&rsquo;s 20th medium-term budget next week, there is plenty of lively public debate, even if too little of it is about the tough choices that go into crafting the national budget.If the choices in 1997 were tough, they are much more so now. Gordhan can surely only envy the days when the president had the finance minister&rsquo;s back, rather than trying to stab him in it, and when the political will and cohesion were there to make the choices that were needed. Now, much of the lively political noise is about his own position, with ratings agencies and investors watching closely to see whether the public purse will remain in safe hands, preferably Gordhan&rsquo;s.It was his February budget that helped to stabilise investor sentiment and, along with the partnership he forged with business and labour, stave off a mid-year ratings downgrade. The big selling point in the February budget was that it did not simply allay the concerns that had been raised by 9/12, &mdash; when President Jacob Zuma fired then finance minister Nhlanhla Nene and replaced him with the unknown Des van Rooyen. The February budget went further, promising overdelivery on the fiscal consolidation path the government had already embarked on, pencilling in R25bn of added spending cuts and R48bn of extra tax collections over the three-year medium-term framework so that the debt level would stop climbing by 2017-18, a year earlier than planned. Ironically, perhaps, the February numbers were partly Nene&rsquo;s &mdash; he was called in to see the president on the evening of 9/12, just hours after he had presented the budget to Cabinet, with much of the work completed.This time around, the numbers are all Gordhan s, and though the ratings agencies are, if anything, watching the politics even more closely than they are watching fiscal policy, they have indicated that any "slippage" on the deficit and debt path that was promised in February could trigger a downgrade. But they have also been warning that a downgrade could be triggered if SA s economic growth rate gets much weaker. The interaction between growth and fiscal policy is at the core of the challenge Gordhan faces in the current fiscal year and for the three years of the medium-term budget.It may well be at the core, too, of the narrative around the budget next week, after Gordhan stated quite categorically at this week&rsquo;s UASA conference: "Growth, and inclusive growth, is the central issue facing SA." The bottom line is this: Gordhan is extremely unlikely to be able to meet his deficit targets for this year because weaker growth will see revenues fall far short of budget. There is not a lot he and his team can do about it at this stage of the fiscal year, other than hope and pray, tweak spending here and there, and assure the ratings agencies, yet again, of SA&rsquo;s continued commitment to prudent policy.The question is what they do about the next three years. The core of Gordhan&rsquo;s dilemma is that although he would have to raise taxes even more than already promised and cut spending even more, if he does so, he could further damage SA&rsquo;s already weak growth prospects and already low investor and consumer confidence levels. That&rsquo;s assuming he has the political support for steep tax hikes or spending cuts, which can hardly be assumed at this stage.In a recent interview with Business Day at the New York investor conference, he spoke of the need to "balance out the different imperatives we face", saying: "We have to show that we will stick to our undertakings on consolidation, but on the other hand we have got to be very mindful that fiscal consolidation in the absence of growth does damage growth further."That&rsquo;s the balance he will try to strike next week, and the narrative to the ratings agencies will surely be about the delicacy of that balancing act, especially at a time when his own position is in the balance. It always is delicate, but never more so than this year, when there seems to be less consensus than usual among economists about what the numbers say and how difficult Gordhan&rsquo;s task will be. Clearly growth has fallen short of the Treasury&rsquo;s February forecasts of 0.9% in 2016, rising to 1.7% and 2.4% in the next two years. Even after a stronger second quarter, the Reserve Bank&rsquo;s 0.4% for 2016, rising to 1.1% in 2017, are more realistic.That clearly indicates a revenue shortfall, and the trend so far in 2016 indicates that will indeed be the case. Efficient Group economists Dawie Roodt and Francois Stofberg estimate revenue will undershoot February&rsquo;s budget targets by at least R22bn, with big shortfalls in personal income tax and value-added tax (VAT). Absa Capital economist Peter Worthington expects an R18bn undershoot, though he notes the extent of undercollections so far in 2016 has been masked by R10bn of extraordinary revenue related to financial transactions.Shortfalls that large would add 0.4-0.5 percentage points to the budget deficit, even if the promised spending curbs are on track. Some economists are less pessimistic. They suggest the first three months of revenue collections were particularly poor and the rest of the year will be much better. They hope for better-than-expected spending numbers, thanks to the government s success in capping employment numbers and containing growth in the public sector payroll, as well as the success of the Treasury s chief procurement officer in cutting waste and fraud.But even if Gordhan can manage the optics and allay the concerns, what about the next couple of years? There are some big demands on spending, such as those of the students, but there are also question marks over revenue collections and the sustainability of the buoyancy of recent years, which has seen revenue grow consistently faster than the economy since 2010 (see graph). This has helped successive finance ministers pursue fiscal consolidation in an environment of weaker growth by increasing revenue, not by cutting spending, which has merely grown more slowly.The trouble is that the revenue buoyancy is unlikely to last. That&rsquo;s particularly so because a good part of it was a case of the government boosting its own personal income tax and VAT collections through the generous wage settlements with public servants that have made employee compensation the second fastest growing item of spending, as well as the growth in the public service since the financial crisis. The freeze on hiring will cap that. And although Gordhan is looking to new initiatives, such as the tax and foreign exchange amnesty, to add to revenue in 2017, those are one-off windfalls. In the end, if he wants to stick close to his medium-term deficit targets, he and his government colleagues will have to face the difficult trade-offs involved in deciding whether to effect more tax hikes or more spending curbs.Nor is it just about placating rating agencies. Far more fundamentally, it is about what SA itself can sustainably afford and how it can ensure it has the resources to keep delivering the pro-poor services and social grants that have been so important to SA&rsquo;s transformation in the past 20 years. In the medium-term budget of 20 years ago, the priority was to cut the public debt level to free up the money that was paying the interest so it could be used instead to improve the quality of life for all. Now, again, the public debt level is close to 50% of GDP and interest on state debt is state expenditure&rsquo;s fastest-growing item, consuming 12c of every R1 of tax revenue. Fiscal consolidation is really about stopping that spiral, in which the state keeps having to take on more debt, spending ever more of its cash just servicing that debt.Higher economic growth would take off a lot of the pressure, boosting revenue, narrowing the deficit and improving the debt ratios. That&rsquo;s why the markets, and the ratings agencies, won&rsquo;t just be watching the budget numbers, but looking out for word on what progress, if any, there has been on the structural reforms the government has long promised to enhance confidence and investment and boost the growth rate.Ratings agencies and investors are growing impatient with the lack of progress in areas such as state-owned enterprise reform, mining legislation and labour reforms. These are not within Gordhan&rsquo;s power to deliver. He did promise this week that his Cabinet colleagues were working on it and that there were indications of progress to show the rating agencies. Not that transparent or predictable, but there you have it.&bull; Joffe is editor at large.