The scar above Pitso Mosimane’s left eye gives him the steely look of a warmonger. It gives the person on the receiving end of his piercing stare a window into his battle-worn soul. The Mamelodi Sundowns coach is ready to take his place among two people who took a South African team to a CAF Champions League title — Joe Frickleton and Ronald Mkandawire, who each coached a leg of Orlando Pirates’ 1995 final win over Ivory Coast’s Asec Mimosas. Mosimane carries with him to Alexandria, where blood-thirsty Egyptian fans are waiting with infrared laser beams to put off his players, the healthiest lead a South African club has ever taken north for a second leg of the decider. Sundowns’ sensational 3-0 win at Lucas Masterpieces Moripe Stadium last weekend surpassed the tenuous 2-2 draw the Buccaneers took to Abidjan in 1995, the 1-1 draw the 2001 Brazilians took to Al Ahly and the 1-1 Pirates arrived with in Egypt when they faced the same Red Devils in Cairo in 2013. But history has been preparing Mosimane for this very moment in history. In all his failures as a Bafana Bafana coach, "Jingles" never lost to Egypt, a traditional powerhouse in African football. He is also unbeaten in Egypt. Zamalek coach Moamen Soliman called Mosimane a cunning operator for moving last weekend’s kick-off time to 3pm, knowing full well that Egyptians play their football at night because of the heat. Sundowns displayed the biggest bravura when they went through this year’s Champions League campaign without so much as a draw in North Africa, where South African men have shrunk to mice in the past. Mosimane’s alchemy in getting the better of North Africans will help Sundowns in their quest to preserve a 3-0 advantage and get that much coveted first star above their crest. "I’ve never lost in Egypt," Mosimane said. "And we are not going there to park the bus. We went to Zamalek in a critical stage of the group stages and won. We went to Entente Setif in the first match and we never parked the bus. Why should we do so now? "They must score four goals to beat us. Even at 3-3 (on aggregate) we still have a chance. Four goals are possible but I believe we can score a vital away goal as well. The main thing, then, is for us to score. If they score, we score. They will throw everything at us in the first 15 minutes but if we absorb the pressure then they will start getting desperate and pushing everybody forward. "We can hit them with the speed of Anthony Laffor, Khama Billiat, Keagan Dolly and Percy Tau. Kekana can put behind them if they press high." As Bafana coach, Mosimane was derided for a technical error that cost SA a place in the 2012 Africa Cup of Nations, which slipped through his entire technical staff’s fingers. He paid the price with his job. But the experience made him wiser — to Sundowns’ benefit. These days not so much as a fly contaminates his planning. He has mastered the psychological aspect of the game, which will be as important to Sundowns lifting the trophy as anything that comes from the feet of Billiat, Dolly, Hlompho Kekana and Co. "The whole week I’ve had to make sure I watched the players’ body language and their behaviour," said Mosimane. "Anxiety is there but you have to pay attention to their body language and listen to what they say." Mosimane will be hoping his players are on song come the 8.30pm kick-off at the Borg El Arab Stadium on Sunday.