The case against Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan may be withdrawn on Monday. A National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) media briefing had been planned for Monday morning, at which NPA head Shaun Abrahams was expected to announce his decision on a request to review the charges by former South African Revenue Service commissioner Oupa Magashula and former deputy commissioner Ivan Pillay. Charged alongside Magashula and Pillay, Gordhan was set to face two charges of fraud this week, linked to his rubber stamping early retirement for Pillay in 2010, and then reappointing him on contract during Gordhan’s first stint as finance minister. Sources close to the trio on Sunday told Business Day it appeared the charges might be withdrawn. A source close to Gordhan said it might be done to avert the protest march in which ANC members, leaders and stalwarts are set to participate and that is planned to coincide with his court appearance. The campaign, billed as a "people’s assembly against state capture", will see about 80 CEOs and a number of attorneys and legal professionals participate. On Sunday, Save South Africa said it would proceed with the march and its campaign against state capture even if the charges were withdrawn. Abrahams has come under intense pressure after announcing two weeks ago that Gordhan had been summoned to appear in court on two charges of fraud on November 2. This was exacerbated by a court case challenging the charges against Gordhan as baseless and politically motivated. It also emerged in media reports that Abrahams had met President Jacob Zuma at the ANC headquarters, Luthuli House, a day before he announced that Gordhan had been summonsed. The meeting fuelled speculation the case against Gordhan was politically motivated despite Abrahams and the Presidency saying they discussed the tertiary education funding crisis. The charges against Gordhan are widely being seen as Zuma’s desperate attempts to remove him from his position. In 2015, Zuma was forced to re appoint Gordhan to the portfolio he had previously occupied from 2009 to 2014 after an uproar and market meltdown over his sudden axing of the respected Nhlanhla Nene. On Sunday, the City Press newspaper reported that a letter had been drafted, based on representations from Magashula and Pillay, indicating that Abrahams had changed his mind about the charges. If charges against any of the two were to be dropped, it would be difficult for the NPA to sustain those against the other two accused including Gordhan, as the NPA relied on the same evidence to charge them.