Parliament’s standing committee on finance is taking steps to ensure that the investigation into allegations against suspended South African Revenue Service (SARS) executives yields results. It is to ask the South African Police Service (SAPS) — which received the allegations several months ago — what progress it has made with its investigations into the suspicious payments of about R1.2m which were made into the bank accounts of SARS head of business and individual tax Jonas Makwakwa and his girlfriend and SARS employee Kelly-Ann Elskie, who has also been suspended. The finance committee has also requested SARS commissioner Tom Moyane to provide an update of SARS’s own investigation into the matter by no later than the first quarter of next year. SARS has appointed law firm Hogan Lovells to probe the suspicious payments, which were reported to it by the Financial Intelligence Centre (FIC), and Moyane said SARS would act on the basis of its report. Moyane appeared before the committee on Wednesday to brief it on the 2015-16 annual report and to answer questions about the Makwakwa matter. Unanswered was why it took Moyane from mid-May to mid-September before Makwakwa was suspended. DA finance spokesman David Maynier asked Moyane to provide the committee with the timeline of events since it received the report from the FIC. FIC executive director Murray Michel has said the FIC report to SARS contained allegations of criminality related to contraventions of the Public Finance Management Act and the Prevention and Combating of Corrupt Activities Act, and also raised taxation issues. Both committee chairman Yunus Carrim and Maynier considered it inappropriate for Moyane to have brought Makwakwa along with him when he briefed the committee on August 23 when Makwakwa was the subject of such serious allegations and processes were already under way in SARS to deal with them. "It was very poor judgment on his [Moyane’s] part as Jonas Makwakwa should never have been at that meeting," Maynier said. On hearing both Michel and Moyane give an account of their interactions, Carrim concluded that it did not seem that the FIC had been unco-operative towards Moyane, as Moyane has previously alleged. Michel insisted that the FIC had provided SARS with all the information and advice required of it by law.