Several senior employees at Airports Company SA (Acsa) will face disciplinary action for allegedly violating supply chain management regulations. Although the company did not reveal the names of the employees implicated in the matter, Business Day understands that CEO Bongani Maseko and Percy Sithole, the procurement manager at OR Tambo International Airport, are among those who have been given presuspension notices. They have been asked to provide reasons why they should not be suspended. Acsa said on Sunday the board of directors had concluded an investigation following supply chain management irregularities highlighted in the company’s annual audit. "Where the process currently is does not in any manner point to any Airports Company SA employees being charged or found guilty of any wrong-doing. Therefore, the identities of such employees cannot be revealed in the interest of protecting their rights.... "While this process is being conducted, Airports Company SA is not able to comment further," the company said. Acsa chairman Skhumbuzo Macozoma, who will take over as CEO of the South African National Roads Agency in December, said the board would act in the best interest of the company to ensure minimal disruptions to business operations and to protect its long-term sustainability. Maseko has been CEO since 2011, but was formally appointed in 2013. Should the suspensions come to pass, this would add to the board and management turmoil that many state-owned companies find themselves in. South African Airways is in the process of recruiting a CEO and filling senior executive vacancies and its board was appointed only in September, while over at the SABC the board does not meet the legal threshold to make decisions. Acsa has in the past been embroiled in allegations of tender irregularities. The handling of the matter involving Exclusive Books is said to be at the centre of the move to suspend the Acsa executives. In September, the Supreme Court of Appeal dismissed an appeal by Acsa, preventing the airport operator from evicting Exclusive Books from one of its stores in OR Tambo International Airport. Acsa had sought to overturn a judgment of the High Court in Johannesburg, which ruled in favour of Exclusive Books against Acsa’s bid to evict it after the contract to run the store was awarded to a shelf company.