There were doubts that the economy would grow by the Treasury’s earlier projection of 0.9%, Treasury director-general Lungisa Fuzile said on Wednesday. Economists had forecast a substantially lower growth rate and the Treasury would provide an updated forecast in the medium-term budget policy statement on October 26. Negative factors such as structural constraints and low business confidence were driving down SA’s economic performance, Fuzile said in a presentation to Parliament’s finance committee on the Treasury’s 2015-16 annual report. The government needed to ensure policy certainty, restore investor confidence in the durability of institutions and address structural factors that were constraining growth, he said. "A determined and united response is needed to overcome economic challenges that include skills and electricity shortages and adverse trade movements," Fuzile said. "In the absence of action low economic growth leads to shortfalls in revenue with fiscal consolidation being derailed as national debt rises." There was little the government could do about the state of the global economy but lots it could do domestically. "The sooner we get going in implementing the structural reforms necessary to reignite growth here the better for us." He said the government had responded in the 2016-17 budget by lowering its spending ceiling and announcing tax measures to boost revenue in a balanced approach. The government had to learn to do more with less. Fuzile said the IMF had revised global growth downwards to 3.1% and SA’s to 0.6%. He said SA’s low economic growth, rising debt and depleted revenues would hurt the Treasury’s ability to close the country’s large fiscal deficits. Fuzile warned SA would have to introduce a range of cost-cutting measures to make up for the poor economic growth. The government is under pressure to lift growth above 1% to avoid ratings downgrades to subinvestment later in the year, after sharp downturns in the manufacturing and mining sectors saw the economy contract in the first quarter. Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan promised in February to cut the budget deficit to 3..2% from 3.9% in 2015 through a number of spending cuts. Gordhan’s medium-term budget policy statement to Parliament will be keenly watched by rating agencies. Meanwhile, the Treasury has not received any information about the allegations made against its chief procurement officer, Kenneth Brown, which Decolonisation Foundation founder Mzwanele Manyi has submitted to the Hawks. Without concrete information, the Treasury said it was unable to undertake an investigation, deputy director-general Ismail Momoniat told members of the finance committee on Wednesday. He said Manyi and the Hawks had been asked to provide the dossier, which Manyi claims was left anonymously under his door, but they had not done so. The Hawks had replied that they were looking into the matter and could not provide the dossier to the Treasury at this stage.. Momoniat stressed the Treasury had a zero-tolerance approach to corruption but to date it had no substantiated allegations against Brown. "To be fair, all those who are making accusations must at the very least provide it [the evidence] to us. We want hard information." Fuzile said it was problematic that Manyi had access to Brown’s bank statements, which should only be in the possession of Brown and his bank. "We do not have the information, whether obtained legally or otherwise, so the expectation that we act is totally misplaced," Fuzile said. EFF MP Floyd Shivambu said the allegations had to be seen in the context of the systematic attack on the Treasury by groups related to the Gupta family. Manyi has also asked President Jacob Zuma not to sign the Financial Intelligence Centre Amendment Bill. with Reuters 