Even by the high standards of South African political angst, the past week has been wrenching. Just the most important events include these: First, the Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan has been charged with fraud for administrative actions so routine that it is estimated that 3,000 other public servants may have benefited from the same dispensation. Second, President Jacob Zuma has brought a court action against the former public protector Thuli Madonsela to prevent her publishing a report into state capture days before her departure. Third, the Treasury has brought a legal application which effectively discloses the amount of cash the Gupta family has been moving around, and this amount it turns out is extraordinarily huge. All this has taken place against the background of ongoing clashes between police and students. Also simmering has been an increasing number of senior members of the ANC, including former finance minister Trevor Manuel and former foreign affairs director-general of Sipho Pityana, who have called on the president to resign. This debate and a host of others have divided the ANC like never before. The battle lines have been drawn in stark, threatening terms with ANCYL chair Collen Maine called for MK veterans to take up arms to defend Zuma at a #HandsOffJZ march due to take place in Durban next week. "Bring your guns," he said. It barely made the front pages of SA’s newspapers that the Supreme Court of Appeal has asked to hear argument on why the long saga of the corruption charges against Zuma should not be reinstated. And then there was the confusing incident in which speaker Baleka Mbete first refused to accept the public protector’s state capture report, and then backtracked and did. Finally, or perhaps not finally, a large number of senior ANC members came out yesterday in support of Gordhan, including Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa. Incredibly all of this took place while Zuma was out of the country. Effectively, the ructions within the ANC that have been building over the past years are tearing this proud, century-old liberation movement apart. In these circumstances government policy cannot be put into effect. It is little surprise that departments ignore each other and take each other to court. The result is that SA is facing a seminal moment. How does the country escape the closing trap into which it is being relentlessly driven. Who is to blame? How can it be fixed? It is practically impossible at this moment to not consider whether the president should resign. Leave aside for the moment whether such an act is likely or not, and consider just the merits. The ANC demanded that former president Thabo Mbeki resign following a court judgement, later overturned, that he might have been involved influencing a decision to prosecute Zuma. But compared to what Zuma has done, what Mbeki did pales into insignificance. Zuma has been found to have disrespected the Constitution by none other than the Constitutional Court itself. His influence in the prosecution of his own finance minister is not proved but is widely suspected. And most importantly, the evidence is gathering that he has tacitly allowed the business associates of his family to loot the state. This comes on top of simply being an indecisive, vote-losing leader whose management has been appalling. He has contributed to his party losing control of three of the five biggest cities. Under his management, economic growth is now stagnant, and the country’s debt is on the verge of being downgraded to junk. It is a pitiful, pitiful state. What would the arguments be against the president resigning? Essentially, there is no guarantee that Zuma’s successor would be any better. The choice would lie in the hands of ANC, but would they make the right decision? There may be other reasons, and if so we would like to hear them, and we will publish them. But in the absence of strong argument, it is our considered opinion that Zuma should resign. 