When Johannesburg businessman Harald Schulz received an invitation to exhibit 1,000 Consol Solar Jars in Warwickshire, the UK, at a memorial to English landscape architect Lancelot "Capability" Brown, he jumped at the idea. But after travelling to London to meet Laurent Louyer of lighting consultancy Creatmosphere, which is devising a series of lighting effects for the exhibition at Compton Verney Art Gallery and Park, Schulz realised the jars wouldn’t work well in the UK’s autumn sunshine. The exhibition, called In Light: Illuminating Capability Brown’s Landscape is part of tercentenary celebrations to honour the man known as "England’s greatest gardener" and runs from October 29 to November 13. Brown, who often told his aristocratic clients their gardens had "great capabilities", died in 1783 and is credited with introducing the country estate garden style — often with undulating lawns, clumps of trees and focal points, such as bridges and classical temples — that came to be seen as typically English. His romantic yet natural gardens can be seen at about 170 country homes in England. Louyer planned to place 1,000 Consol Solar Jars on one of the lawns at Compton Verney. The jars require 12 hours’ exposure to sunlight to work for the same amount of time. Each one has a small solar panel and battery in the lid, which lasts about a year and is replaceable. The idea was born in 2010 when Consol Glass approached Schulz, a former hydraulics engineer working for nonprofit organisation, Sustainable Energy Society of Southern Africa, to design a solar-powered light. Schulz discovered a product invented by Los Angeles-based designer Tobias Wong, who committed suicide in 2010. Wong’s Sun Jar is more of a night light that emits an ambient orange glow from a frosted glass bottle, while the Consol Solar Jar emits enough light to read by. Because it is made of clear glass, the jar can be customised by placing items inside such as feathers, gemstones or greeting cards. Tourists in Mauritius get theirs filled with beach sand as a memento of their holiday. Schulz’s company Suntoy supplies Germany with about 40,000 jars a month. "We battled to keep up with demand." From a small office in Selby, he has moved the company to larger premises in Village Deep, where he employs 60 staff. Consol supplies the bottles and Schulz designed the hi-tech lid. While putting the finishing touches to the product he faced a problem: how to keep the lid down securely. "One day I bought a six-pack of Grolsch beers," he explains. "I was opening one when I noticed how the cap was held down with a piece of bent wire." Suntoy’s employees now use a custom-made machine to bend pieces of wire to secure the lid onto each jar. The company has produced 1.5-million solar jars so far, Schulz says. The problem posed by the In Light exhibition was bigger than bending a piece of wire: it required hi-tech engineering. Schulz approached the University of Johannesburg’s Resolution Circle, staffed mainly by recent engineering graduates, and together, they created a remote-controlled Solar Jar that can store energy by means of three powerful lithium iron batteries. "These lids cost 10 times more than the conventional ones, so they are not commercially viable," Schulz says. "We produced them for the installation, which will be on in the evenings, for about four hours. "Using the MiWi Microchip wireless networking protocol, they are designed with energy efficiency in mind to be able to work for the show’s duration of 18 days. The amount of light emitted can be remote controlled using wireless DMX technology, commonly used by lighting technicians, as well as via the internet." The technology will not go to waste — the university’s boffins are working on other professional applications. Schulz says his journey into solar began when his wife brought home a small solar-powered toy cricket from the UK. "I was so enchanted by this little toy that I contacted the distributor in Germany, from whom we afterwards purchased many hundreds and sold them, mainly at the Rosebank Rooftop Market," he says. His latest design is the Bottle Top, which he hopes to distribute across Africa. It is a dome-shaped lid that can be placed on top of any bottle. It emits far more light than the Consol Solar Jar, and experiments he did with his 15-year-old daughter and two of her friends, showed they could read comfortably using one Bottle Top in a dark room. Dangling a colourful string of beads from one Bottle Top lid and a blingy chain from another, Schulz says: "We like our products to have an element of seriousness and play." 