Police Minister Nathi Nhleko last week pushed Parliament’s portfolio committee to initiate an inquiry into Independent Police Investigative Directorate (Ipid) director Robert McBride’s fitness for office, weeks after the Constitutional Court declared provisions allowing Nhleko to suspend McBride unlawful. In a letter, Nhleko asked National Assembly Speaker Baleka Mbete to request Parliament’s police committee to look into McBride’s fitness to hold office, in terms of section 6 (6) of the Ipid Act. The National Assembly has until Tuesday to determine if this should be referred to the police committee and this process could result in the extension of McBride’s suspension. McBride is expected back at his office on Wednesday. Nhleko asked Mbete to mandate the portfolio committee on police to consider initiating disciplinary proceedings against McBride over allegations of misconduct related to a report of renditions conducted by former Hawks head Anwa Dramat. "In my view, based on the available documents and information, I am satisfied that there is a prima facie case of gross misconduct for McBride to answer before the committee of the National Assembly or a disciplinary committee," Nhleko wrote to Mbete. Parliament does have the power to initiate disciplinary proceedings against McBride, if it chooses to do so. Portfolio committee chairman Francois Beukman said the committee would meet to discuss the matter on Tuesday. The next sitting of the National Assembly is on October 25, which is after the expiry date of McBride’s suspension. DA MP in the committee Zakhele Mbhele said there should be a "full-scale parliamentary inquiry" into Nhleko’s fitness for office over the Ntlemeza and McBride blunders. "It is the minister that must be looked at. That’s the larger and more fundamental issue in all of this. The minister wants this suspension to happen or to ‘suspend’ an unlawful suspension because it is part of a larger political battle in which McBride is a front," Mbhele said. ANC MP in the police committee Jerome Maake told Business Day that he personally preferred Parliament to undertake an "ad-hoc" or "commission" process rather than a disciplinary process of anyone in the department. "If the decision is to refer it to us, it will give us direction on which way to go. Personally I would not like it to be a disciplinary committee unless it is a commission or ad hoc committee to find out any wrongdoing," Maake said. 