Legae Securities wants Shoprite shareholders to vote against 10 of the 21 resolutions at the annual general meeting (AGM). The resolutions that have earned the disapproval of the black-owned and managed stockbroking firm relate to the audit firm’s independence, the independence of directors, control over unissued shares and the remuneration policy. The contested resolutions deal with issues at the heart of the King IV corporate governance code that will be launched on November 1, the day after Shoprite’s AGM. In its proxy insight into the Shoprite annual general meeting, Legae Securities said PwC had been auditing Shoprite since at least 2003 and this raised questions about its independence. "PwC is one of the big four audit firms in SA and possess the skills, experience and sufficient resources to perform the audit," but it had been auditing the company for more than 12 years and so "we recommend that Shoprite issue a new audit tender". The King IV draft is not prescriptive on the number of years before auditors’ independence becomes questionable, merely recommending the audit committee be satisfied with the auditors’ independence. But the Independent Regulatory Board for Auditors looks set to follow the European practice where audit firms must be changed every 10 years. At Shoprite’s 2015 AGM the re-appointment of PWC received support from 99.9% of shareholders. Legae also advised shareholders to vote against the re-election of JF Basson and Johan Louw to the audit and risk committee. Basson, chairman of the committee, was previously a partner at PwC, which raises issues about his independence, says the stockbroker. Louw, who was appointed to the audit committee in 2011, has been a director of Shoprite since 1991 and therefore his independence could be compromised. The Public Investment Corporation, which holds 12.5% of Shoprite, voted against Louw’s reappointment at the 2015 meeting, as well as against the appointment of JJ Fouche to the audit and risk committee because they had been on the board for 22 years. Both were opposed by just more than 10% of the shareholders. Anna Mokgokong was suitably skilled and qualified to be a director but Legae opposed her re-election to the board because she was on several other boards and it feared overcommitment. Although Shoprite has a background of value-creation, Legae Securities advised against giving the directors authority over unissued shares or the right to issue shares for cash. It wants to see specific justifications before granting this authority. There was little opposition to these resolutions in 2015: both were passed with 97% support. But recent comments by Shoprite chairman Christo Wiese about a possible tie-up between Shoprite and Steinhoff, where Wiese is also chairman and major shareholder, could encourage a more active response on this issue from shareholders at the upcoming meeting. Legae advised shareholders to vote against the company’s remuneration policy, not only because of CEO Whitey Basson’s 99.8% increase but because the remuneration report lacked required details around the metrics and targets for the short-and long-term incentive awards.