The Blue Bulls’ resurrection will be complete if they crown their revival under coach Nollis Marais with a Currie Cup trophy in Bloemfontein this weekend. The problem, though, is that they are facing a team that has also risen from the ashes, making this final possibly one of the most hotly contested showdowns in recent times. "I think we are going to see a classic," said Marais. These two teams have an astonishing finals history in this competition. From the first clash at this stage between Northern Transvaal and Free State in 1973, where the former emerged victorious, there has always been a grudge between the Pretoria and Bloemfontein-based sides. There is a clash of styles that runs as deep as their DNA. The Blue Bulls are the traditional big boys, while the Free State Cheetahs have represented a more laid-back, carefree approach. But the Bulls have won six of eight finals since 1973, while one was drawn (2006) and the Cheetahs won in 2005. They have gone through the competition unbeaten and face either the prospect of doing what the Golden Lions did last year by winning it with an unblemished record or imitating Western Province in 2013 that lost one game: the final. The Bulls have also refined their game plan. Marais has almost had to beat the kick-chase game out of his players and programmed them into a multi-faceted approach, where they can play for territory and run the ball when the game opens up. "We are in a much better space than we were last year," said Marais. "We went into last year’s semifinal [against Western Province] with no confidence and when we were under pressure we retreated to our old kicking game and old habits. "We were faced with a similar situation this year but this time the guys kept on playing. "We made the most ball-carries, the most metres and we won the game," he said. "We’ve got a good mixture of talent and we can play any game plan that’s required of us. "If it’s raining, we are good in the air. We said from the beginning that we wanted to be a side that had a good attacking game, a good defence, good tactical kicking and a good mixture of all those facets. "If the game opens up, we’ve got the players to take on the space: Jamba Ulengo, Travis Ismael [both wingers] and Bjorn Basson [fullback]. Just like the Cheetahs, we’ve got good backs but we’ve also got a good pack and we can move the ball around," Marais said. "We’ve moved far away from players and props that can’t move around the park or can’t play with the ball." The Bulls will be without injured lock RG Snyman, a player Marais said he would have included in the Springbok squad if he were in charge of the national team. The hosts carry much of the burden of pressure, not only because of their unbeaten streak but their home ground advantage too, where 47,000 are expected to pack the Free State Stadium. "To play the final in Bloemfontein is really special," Cheetahs’ coach Franco Smith said. "There has been an unbelievable vibe in the city over the last couple of weeks, something that was possibly last seen during the mid 2000s."