Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane was moving to mend ties with the government that were ruptured during her predecessor’s term, sources close to the office said Thursday. Mkhwebane took over the reins at the beginning of this week and has wasted little time turning things around. She has shifted key senior officials close to Thuli Madonsela, asked that the television channels in the office reception be changed from eNCA to the Gupta-owned ANN7 and told staff that the office existed to work with government and not to be its enemy. There is a question mark about what her approach towards the state capture report will be. The report, which centres on President Jacob Zuma’s relationship with the Gupta family, was finalised by Madonsela on her last day. On Friday she is expected to file an affidavit responding to Zuma and Co-operative Governance Minister Des van Rooyen’s court bid to prevent the report’s release. Mkhwebane said at a media briefing on Thursday that she was taking advice on the matter and was deciding whether she would oppose or agree with the application lodged by the pair. Insiders say she disagrees with some aspects of the report and the way it was finalised. During her first two days, according to sources in the office, she redeployed staff viewed as close to Madonsela. Chief of staff Bonginkosi Dhlamini, who had been in the post for just over three months, and Madonsela’s former personal assistant, Busi Jele, were set to be redeployed — as was the only senior investigator who worked on the state capture report. In response to questions, the office said a new post was still being explored for Dhlamini. He was replaced by customer services manager Linda Molelekoa in an acting capacity. Jele was temporarily moved to the complaints and stakeholder management branch. Mkhwebane met senior management in a "marathon two-day session" and emerged with key decisions on changes to the office, she told journalists. These included doing away with donor funding and the use of consultants in investigations. The naming of investigative reports would be changed and a project to address the investigation backlog would be initiated. Mkhwebane is expected to prioritise critical posts in the office — particularly security personnel. She also placed a moratorium on "benchmarking" trips abroad. "We believe that enough exchanging of notes with our counterparts elsewhere in the world has been done." While criticising some of the practices key to Madonsela’s tenure, Mkhwebane said her predecessor had performed her function without fear or favour and had strengthened constitutional democracy. According to an internal communication to staff, she stressed that she would focus on servicing people at the "grassroots level". She said "this would be achieved through a cordial partnership with government", emphasising that "the institution existed to work with government rather than to be its foe". On donor funding, Mkhwebane said it was "common knowledge" that at times donors "give you an agenda". But Madonsela told Business Day on Thursday that the money was actually given to the South African government and the justice department as part of a "nation-to-nation agreement". "Then they said this small portion of it, which is a drop in the ocean compared to what’s been given to the Department of Justice, should be given to us," she said. The pledge was made in 2015 and has not yet been received.