Click here to edit this text. Top jockey Piere Strydom will be hoping to be named as one of the "wild-card" picks when the South African team for November’s international meetings is announced on Friday. The first four in last season’s national jockeys log are automatic choices, which means champion S’mango Khumalo, Anthony Delpech, Anton Marcus and Andrew Fortune will be in the side. This leaves two places for Racing Association CEO Larry Wainstein to fill, and the trio likely to be considered are Strydom, Gavin Lerena and Muzi Yeni. Considering his success in England and Hong Kong in the past 12 months, it seems unlikely that Lerena — who recently won the R750,000 Grand Heritage on Irish Pride — will be left out. With Fortune now riding on the Highveld, this means there is unlikely to be a Cape jockey in the team, unless Wainstein sides with Grant van Niekerk or Aldo Domeyer, who had 17.38% strike rates last term. Although Strydom missed much of last season through injury, he is back among the winners in the new campaign and rode a double at Turffontein last Saturday. Strydom will be in action at Turffontein on Thursday, where his best chance of success lies with Scott Kenny’s runner, Tokyo Drift, in the fourth race. A son of Admire Main, bred at Summerhill Stud, Tokyo Drift is overdue another visit to the No1 box following a string of consistent efforts. The chief dangers will probably be Pistolero and Geoff Woodruff’s well-bred five-year-old Captainofmyheart. Trainer Spike Lerena has booked Strydom for owner Mike Wittstock’s runner, Post Grad, in the sixth race and the gelding has an each-way chance in a competitive handicap. However, the runner with the most appeal in this 1,800m contest is Mike de Kock’s three-year-old Navarro. The son of Silvano probably needed the outing when second behind Sammy Silver at Turffontein in September. The two runners from Weiho Marwing’s stable, Let It Rain and The Rock, also enter calculations and should be included in exotic perms. Another Woodruff inmate, Warm Night Alice, makes her third racecourse appearance in the seventh race and should run well with (Gavin) Lerena booked for the ride. Ladies Club and another of Strydom’s mounts, Gold Shades, could prove dangerous. Trainer Gary Alexander will be over the moon with the emphatic win by Kangaroo Jack in last Saturday’s Joburg Spring Challenge and he could capture Thursday’s fifth race with The Elmo Effect. The five-year-old found only Storm Warning too good for him last time out and could go one better at the expense of Arch Rival and Zafira. Storm Warning is again in opposition and a repeat win would not be a great surprise, as he goes well for his in-form rider Craig Zackey. Although a large field will face the starter’s orders in the final leg of the Pick 6, punters should get a good run for their money from Brian Wiid’s consistent five-year-old, Arpad. The gelding has been placed in each of his last five outings. PUBLISHED IN BUSINESS DAY -- NO REPUBLICATION RIGHTS