That the anticipated SA Rugby indaba takes place on Wednesday and Thursday (October 20)‚ nine years to the day since the Springboks won the 2007 World Cup ‚ serves to highlight how far rugby standards have fallen. Former Springbok coach Jake White‚ who led the Boks to that triumph in Paris, should be in attendance in Cape Town on Wednesday to share his views. But he will not be because he was not invited. "I haven’t been asked to attend or give any input‚" White told Business Day from France. "I do find it odd that you have a national seminar discussing the future of the Springboks and rugby in SA and not every influential role player will be there. "That is a worrying sign about how serious this indaba is. I heard Heyneke Meyer wasn’t invited either‚ which is crazy if it’s true. All coaches would have invaluable input." SA Rugby confirmed that most South African-based former Bok coaches were invited and that Carel du Plessis and Ian McIntosh were the only two to accept the invitation. Nick Mallett and André Markgraaff declined‚ Peter de Villiers is in Namibia coaching and Meyer’s involvement was still unclear. The ageing John Williams and Harry Viljoen‚ who has not been active in rugby for a decade‚ were not invited. White‚ despite what many in SA may think about him‚ should be in attendance because he is now the most senior active South African coach on the planet. He is not universally loved but holds a fundamental belief — that the Springboks should always be as good as the All Blacks. New Zealand are the gold standard of world rugby and White’s unflinching conviction that South African players are second to none is a strength. White is a great motivator who makes players believe they are peerless. He won the junior and senior World Cups with the SA under-21s and Springboks ‚ and has coached at club level in Australia‚ SA and France. All former Bok coaches‚ barring De Villiers‚ are inactive as coaches‚ which should make White’s opinion and input at this indaba crucial. He also has a fundamental and intricate understanding of the challenges of Test rugby and SA’s own unique ones. There is a sense that having strong personalities such as White‚ Mallett and De Villiers in the same room could be counterproductive rather than beneficial. But there would only be one way to find out. Former Saracens coach and Bok centre Brendan Venter will facilitate the meeting, along with sports psychologist Pieter Kruger. All Super Rugby coaches have been invited and will attend along with the CEs of the six franchises and personnel from their organisations. Cheetahs coach Franco Smith and Bulls coach Nollis Marais‚ who are preparing their teams for the Currie Cup final on Saturday‚ will spend one day at the meeting. SA Rugby’s High Performance department has drawn up the agenda and outline for the gathering. TMG Digital