Passenger Rail Agency of SA (Prasa) chairman Popo Molefe has written to National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) head Shaun Abrahams, pleading for help with a pile of cases at the rail agency. Prasa will also seek political intervention into investigations at the parastatal, which have been ongoing for nearly a year and come at a huge cost. The state-owned entity incurred billions of rand in irregular, fruitless and wasteful expenditure. Former public protector Thuli Madonsela also flagged its supply chain weaknesses in her report, Derailed. Molefe told Business Day in an interview this week that he and Prasa acting CEO Collins Letsoalo had tried but failed to petition the state’s anti-corruption task team, of which the NPA forms part, to investigate cases the rail agency wanted to refer to the unit. The Hawks and the South African Revenue Service are also part of the task team, which is chaired by Hawks head Berning Ntlemeza. The task team told MPs in September it was investigating a number of cases at Eskom, Prasa and Denel, but the state-owned entities told Business Day at the time they were not aware of such action. "I have written to them [task team] twice for them to look at Prasa. It was Shaun Abrahams I wrote to. Abrahams responded to the initial letter. I wrote again to get an update and have not got a response. We will write to them again," said Molefe. Prasa needs more help with internal investigations, said Molefe, adding that one investigator at the rail agency was working on 39 cases. The ongoing investigations have been a source of tension between Molefe and Transport Minister Dipuo Peters, who has bemoaned the lack of progress reports even though the rail agency has spent millions on the investigations. NPA spokesman Luvuyo Mfaku on Thursday said he could not comment on Molefe’s letters to Abrahams, but pointed out that the NPA could not prosecute cases that had not yet been investigated. Mfaku added that the NPA was not willing to comment on letters sent to its office by leaders of state-owned entities without discussing issues raised with the relevant parties, especially if they related to investigations and prosecutions. Letsoalo said the agency was changing its supply chain management system to address weaknesses identified by Madonsela in Derailed. Ntlemeza recently said he would wait for feedback from the standing committee on public accounts (Scopa) before discussing the task team’s investigations in public. The task team is due to brief Scopa about its investigations into state-owned enterprises and municipalities. Scopa chairman Themba Godi said he was aware that Prasa was attempting to get the task team to look into the rail agency’s requests for help, but that the heads of the task team had not responded.