Monday October 17 was the first working day of a seven-year term for Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane. She is the second public protector that President Jacob Zuma has appointed; he also appointed Thuli Madonsela in 2009. Parliament overwhelmingly supported the appointment, and civil society organisations such as Corruption Watch endorsed her. If some concerned South Africans still view her appointment with apprehension, it is up to Mkhwebane to set suspicious minds at ease. Regrettably, there seems to be some cause for alarm. First, the unassailable facts. Mkhwebane sketched her career path, both in her CV and during an interview for the position. By her own description, her last position was that of a "spy" — at least of sorts. On July 4 2016, she started working as an analyst with the State Security Agency (SSA). Its mission is "to provide critical and unique intelligence on threats … to the government to advance SA’s national security interests in a changing global environment". In other words, the SSA conducts civilian intelligence operations. It is no crime to work for the SSA. A country needs to be safe from foreign destabilisation, "foreign agents" and such. By ironic coincidence, it was the SSA that in 2015, investigated Madonsela for being an operative of the US’s Central Intelligence Agency, based on the flimsiest of evidence extracted from a clearly bogus website. Working for the SSA should not cast aspersions on anyone. But taking up such a position reflects a certain mind-set, one that does not proclaim independence and boldly "speaking truth to power" or "protecting the public". Accepting a position as an analyst is a curious career trajectory. Why would someone very qualified and (rightly) ambitious, after serving for two years as a very highly placed director in the Department of Home Affairs, take on the position of an analyst? What does an "analyst" at the SSA do? Is it fair to presume that such a position is of a much lower profile, more inward-than outward-looking? When these questions were posed during her interview, Mkhwebane did not provide an unequivocal answer. Concerned South Africans may want to listen to her interview (available on YouTube.) When asked whether taking the position of analyst was not a demotion, she answered that it was "not at all" a demotion, but merely work in a "specialised field" — although by her own admission she had in her previous position acted at the highest level — as chief director — in the Department of Home Affairs. Her job at the SSA was "strictly professional", she said, adding that she was no longer a "manager with subordinates". She took on this very different position to "make sure that we protect the Constitution". This seems like a surprising and puzzling explanation. Despite her protestations to the contrary, the SSA position does represent a significant demotion in stature and status, and a shift in focus. Even if the SSA "protects the Constitution", one may think of many – more obvious – ways of doing so. Second, do her professional qualities fit the image of the ideal public protector? Looking at her career, there is little to show her taking a stand in favour of members of the public. Yes, she served in various capacities including a stint at the Office of the Public Protector, and did her job very well. But on what specific and concrete past experience of "protecting the public" and "speaking truth to power" should we base our expectations of her doing so in the future? By all accounts, she is a consummate professional; by all accounts, she interviewed very well. But these are not the primary yardsticks for success as public protector. In her interview and in other forums, the new public protector has stressed the collaborative and nonconfrontational nature of the relationship between her office and the executive. She correctly referred to the Constitution and its emphasis on the role of chapter 9 institutions to "strengthen" democracy. In an ideal world, this would be the ideal relationship. However, it would be tantamount to turning a blind eye to our immediate past and the fractured relationship between the outgoing public protector and the government if one describes the future relationship in such unproblematic terms. This apprehension is compounded by her intimation that there is a great need to deal with the "ordinary", as opposed to "high-profile" cases. Clearly, a balance needs to be struck. Every individual, especially the powerless and marginalised, should be supported in their quest to redress administrative wrongs against them. However, this should not be done at the expense of cases dealing with more systemic issues. The public protector does not have the capacity to deal with every bread and butter case (for example, a delay in payment of social grants). It is by tackling the systemic and often "high-profile" cases (involving, for example, corruption, nepotism and breaches of the rule of law) that an environment conducive to diligent and people-friendly service delivery will be fostered. Third, there is the context. South Africans know the stakes are high. They have observed the displeasure of the president and some members of the governing party with the investigations undertaken and recommendations arrived at by Madonsela. They also are aware of the occasional "deployment" of "cadres" (in the sense of like-minded and supportive persons staffing key positions). South Africans may wonder how this new appointment fits into this line of thinking. Zuma’s insistence that the new public protector should deal with the "state capture" report has only added to perceptions that he is (at least more) "comfortable" with her dealing with the matter than Madonsela. To some extent, Zuma is burdening the new public protector with the perception of his expectation that she will give him a more sympathetic audience. It will be up to Mkhwebane to assuage these suspicions. We are reminded — and political parties have argued — that the appointment of the outgoing public protector and current chief justice were not, at the time of their appointment, met with great expectations — at least among a number of sceptics. They have both subsequently excelled, not only at performing their jobs excellently, but also with fierce independence and integrity. We expect no less from our new public protector than to be fiercely independent and to act with integrity. We wish her all the best in this quest. But we also realise that it is not an inevitability that she will, like her immediate predecessor, stand fearless and tall as a beacon of accountability, in service of the public. The country holds its breath. • Viljoen is director of the Centre for Human Rights, University of Pretoria.