PRESIDENT Jacob Zuma has not answered outgoing Public Protector Thuli Madonsela’s questions on state capture and is instead pushing for the matter to be deferred to Adv Busisiwe Mkhwebane. Madonsela’s office confirmed late on Thursday that she had met with Zuma, that the meeting was cordial, but "the president’s legal representative argued that the investigation be deferred to the incoming public protector, who he advised had been announced today [on Thursday] ... on the grounds that there wasn’t enough time to conclude the matter properly and that there was no reason for the investigation to be prioritised". But Mkhwebane, who insists she will not be serving anyone’s agenda, on Thursday told 702 in an interview that she would prioritise old investigations. Madonsela is seeing out the end of her seven-year nonrenewable term and has previously said she will draw up a preliminary report on the state capture investigation. She met Zuma in Pretoria on Thursday, the same day he confirmed Mkhwebane was appointed as the new public protector, as part of her investigation of the alleged involvement of the Guptas in Cabinet appointments and the family’s alleged influence over board appointments to the country’s state-owned enterprises. The investigation hinges on whether or not Zuma breached the executive ethics code. "For the greater part of the four-hour meeting, the president’s legal representative argued that the investigation be deferred. "The president and his advisers further advised that the president had not had time to prepare answers with legal advice, given the investigation timelines." It was agreed that Zuma would be given a set of questions and that he answer them in an affidavit. He would then meet the public protector again and provide answers on matters needing clarity. Mkhwebane said Madonsela was busy finalising her investigation into state capture and would write the preliminary report. "Then when I go there I will see what still needs to be done … [but] I will be prioritising old cases because I don’t want a situation where the very same institution is investigating undue delay in government and [is] delaying in finalising cases," she said. Earlier in 2016 the ANC initiated its own investigation into allegations of state capture. However, this came to naught even though Deputy Finance Minister Mcebisi Jonas said the Gupta family, who are close to Zuma, had offered him Nhlanhla Nene’s job. Former ANC MP Vytjie Mentor also alleged that one of the Gupta brothers had offered her a Cabinet post and former government spokesman Themba Maseko said the Guptas had tried to exert pressure on him to direct state advertising to their businesses. The Gupta family has denied acting untowardly and has said the allegations surrounding the family constitute a sustained campaign against its members. The family also challenged its accusers to provide evidence. Mkhwebane said she would investigate all cases brought before her office. "I will be doing my best and doing my work without fear or favour and I will be subjected only to the Constitution and the rule of law. I’m not going to be serving anyone’s agenda."