Wednesday’s Supreme Court of Appeal order in the spy tapes case has given President Jacob Zuma some breathing room in the marathon legal battle over the 2009 decision to axe corruption charges against him. The court case — by the DA, seeking to overturn the decision by former acting prosecutions head Mokotedi Mpshe to drop the charges — is now in its seventh year. It will not end in 2016 and may yet have a way to go, if the parties ultimately head for the Constitutional Court. However, the stakes are high: if all appeals fail, it would mean the charges against the president would be reinstated. And if the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) were to reconsider the prosecution anew, it could only do so on a rational basis. After years of skirmishes, in April, the High Court in Pretoria found Mpshe’s decision to discontinue the prosecution irrational in law and set it aside. It also refused leave to appeal. The president then approached the Supreme Court of Appeal. The court ordered that the application be referred to oral argument. This means the appeal has not been granted or refused. Instead, the justices want the parties to appear before them in the Bloemfontein court and argue about whether the court should entertain the appeal. The order says the parties should also be prepared to argue "the merits" — whether the high court judgment was right or wrong. The order gives the applicant three months to file the record of the case in the high court, ruling out the possibility that it could be heard in the November term. When the case is heard — in 2017 — the appeal court may make a number of possible orders: refuse leave to appeal; grant leave to appeal, but reject the appeal on the merits; or grant leave to appeal and overturn (or vary) the high court’s decision. But whatever the court does, the parties may still approach the Constitutional Court — despite its order last week, turning away an application for a direct appeal by the NPA. After the high court rejected them, Zuma approached the appeal court, but the NPA went directly to the Constitutional Court. The c ourt allows appeals directly without going through the appeal court when it is in the interests of justice. Last week, the Constitutional Court said it was not in the interests of justice to hear the NPA’s appeal "at this stage". This leaves the option open for parties to go back to the Constitutional Court once a decision has been made by the appeal court. DA leader Mmusi Maimane said the party was confident the Supreme Court of Appeal would agree with it once it had heard the DA’s argument. He called it a "bitter irony" that the NPA should charge Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan, on Tuesday, but "stubbornly refuses to reinstate the much more serious charges" against Zuma. NPA spokesman Luvuyo Mfaku said that the prosecuting authority had no comment at this stage.