Parliament&rsquo;s portfolio committee on mineral resources has dismissed President Jacob Zuma&rsquo;s objections to aspects of the Mineral and Petroleum Resources Development Amendment Bill.Critics of the bill say it gives the minister of mineral resources too much power to change the mining charter without consulting Parliament.They fear it allows the minister to ban exports and amend or repeal industrial charters, codes and standards.Zuma raised his objections in January 2015 in a letter to the committee when he sent the bill back to Parliament for reconsideration. He stated that sections 26 2B and 3 of the amendment bill appeared to be inconsistent with SA&rsquo;s obligations to two trade and tariff agreements. In its current form it did not pass constitutional muster, he said.The bill elevated the Codes of Good Practice for the South African Minerals Industry, the Housing and Living Condition Standards for the Minerals Industry and the Amended Broad-Based Socio-Economic Empowerment Charter for South African Mining and Minerals Industry to the status of national legislation, Zuma said.The committee said the ratification of the General Agreement on Trade and Tariffs and the Trade, Development and Co-operation Agreement did not create constitutional rights or obligations and the amendments to sections 26(2B) and 26(3) would therefore pass constitutional muster.The portfolio committee recommended that the National Assembly put the bill to a vote before it went to the National Council of Provinces.The committee&rsquo;s report on the matter reads: "The power given to the minister to amend Codes, Standards and Charter does not bypass constitutional mandated legislative procedure. The definition of &lsquo;this act&rsquo; read with clause 74 will pass constitutional muster."Portfolio committee chairman Sahlulele Luzipho urged members to take the president&rsquo;s views out of the matter and express their views regardless of who might disagree with those views. "This has nothing to do with the president. The president said Parliament must look at this. I will not say what we will reject or accept. The issue we can agree on is not on the argument of the president but on the substantive matters of the committee members," he said.The committee ironed out the procedural matters in the bill but did not address the substantial aspects of the draft legislation which have drawn the ire of oil and gas sector businesses and of think-tanks.DA MP on the committee James Lorimer told Business Day he considered it strange that the ANC would ignore the president s misgivings on the bill."What s happened is the president has advised the House on his views on the bill," he said. "And it rejected them. I believe wrongly so. The substantive concerns raised by the president were rejected by the committee [and] are a problem."Lorimer said the DA would wait to see the amendment bill s assessment unfold in the National Council of Provinces and expected changes to be made.