IN THE UK, Prime Minister Theresa May has announced that the formal Brexit process of withdrawing from the EU will begin by the end of March. In the US, the race between presidential candidates Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton is far too close for comfort, with at least a possibility that the bizarre and unpredictable Trump could get elected. The world is an uncertain and volatile place, and — as our own Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan was quick to emphasise at the SA investor conference in New York this week — politics is influencing economies everywhere, not just in SA. Gordhan was heading off to Washington D.C for the annual meetings of the IMF and World Bank, which opened on Thursday. The IMF’s latest World Economic Outlook, released ahead of the meetings, paints a rather gloomy picture and sounds loud warnings about the risks to growth, particularly some of the political risks in advanced and developing economies. In the US and UK, growth has already weakened, even before we know whether worst-case "hard Brexit" or Trump victory scenarios might materialise. The UK’s Daily Telegraph newspaper was crowing this week that Britain will enjoy the fastest growth in the Group of Seven most industrialised nations in 2016, despite the IMF’s dire predictions about the effect of Brexit. Fastest it may be, but at a forecast 1.8%, falling to 1.1% in 2017, Britain’s growth is expected to be well down on 2015’s rate of 2.2%. The US economy, too, is turning out to be weaker than expected, with the IMF revising down its forecast for 2016, from 2.2% in July, to just 1.6%. The IMF expects advanced countries collectively to grow by that same 1.6%. Fortunately, prospects for emerging market economies are slightly stronger, thanks to lower interest rates in advanced economies, a better outlook in China and somewhat firmer commodity prices. But that masks differences among countries and regions, with sub-Saharan Africa "experiencing a sharp slowdown". The bottom line is that the global economy has "moved sideways", prompting the IMF to revise down its forecast for global growth by 0.1 percentage point to 3.1% in 2016, rising to only 3.4% in 2017. And that’s in the context of "sizeable uncertainty and downside risks", according to the fund. The IMF is particularly concerned that persistent stagnation, as it calls it, could further fuel populist calls for restrictions on trade and immigration, particularly in advanced countries, and that would damp productivity, innovation and growth. SA and other emerging markets have tended to benefit from some of these trends, with emerging markets looking a lot more attractive to international investors because of continued loose monetary policy in slow-growing advanced countries as well as because of the higher perceived risks in those economies — at the same time as some emerging markets are looking a bit less risky because of better commodity prices and a more benign outlook for China. In SA’s case, the improved sentiment towards emerging markets, combined with the ebb and flow of local and global political risks, has seen the rand at one stage up as much as 20% against the pound and about 10% against the dollar since the beginning of 2016. That has helped to contain inflationary pressure and paused interest rate hikes. But, as the Reserve Bank and other economists constantly remind us, it may not last. The political and other risks to economic growth and currencies are as real in the global environment as they are in SA. Equally, the warnings the IMF sounds about the need to encourage trade and immigration if we want growth and innovation, rather than adopting protectionist or xenophobic policies, should be heard too — as should the IMF call for all countries to implement reforms to boost growth and job creation.