We’ve got great news to share: we are just days away from switching over to our brand-new Business Day website. The new site has several advantages over the current BDlive website: - It has a modern, clean design and loads much faster. - It is responsive, which means that it automatically adjusts to your mobile or tablet screen size. - It will soon have a comments function. - It is part of BusinessLIVE, another new project that brings together the best of Times Media’s business content. Get a preview of the new Business Day website here. Once it is fully live, you’ll be directed here whenever you visit www.bdlive.co.za or www.businessday.co.za. How does this affect me? Change can be upsetting, but this switch is actually quite simple. You’ll be directed to the new Business Day website whenever you visit www.bdlive.co.za or www.businessday.co.za. There you’ll find every day’s content from Business Day presented on one page, just like on BDlive. When you visit the BusinessLIVE home page, however, you’ll see the best of Business Day along with content from our other business titles – see below for more on that. All articles sourced from Business Day that you read via BusinessLIVE will have the Business Day logo at the top, so you’ll know the source. Business Day will still publish content on Facebook and Twitter to its followers as usual and keep sending out its popular, twice-daily email newsletters.New Business Day app We have also launched a new version of our app – previously titled BDlive but also now simply labelled Business Day. Get it now to enjoy the new design, video support, greatly improved load times and plenty of bug fixes. For those of you who have the current BDlive application installed, if you app hasn't automatically updated, you can manually update it via Apple’s App Store or the Google Play store. More about BusinessLIVE BusinessLIVE is the ultimate home for South Africa’s discerning business readers, publishing stories from Business Day, the Financial Mail, the Sunday Times’s Business Times, and Investors Monthly in one place along with video from our multimedia team and Business Day TV. It is updated throughout the day by the expert journalists in our business newsroom and by our fast news team. We're inviting you to try out Business Day and BusinessLIVE – all you need to do is register, which is free and fast to do. Coming soon: BL Premium At the end of this month, we will also introduce BusinessLIVE Premium, which will be for subscribers only. The BL Premium section will include the top columnists from our business publications as well as full digital access to The Wall Street Journal, a selection of daily top articles from the Financial Times, and all of Morningstar's incredible share and unit trust data. Here’s the good news: if you register now on BusinessLIVE, you will be able to try out BL Premium for free until the end of October. Any questions? Email feedback@bdlive.co.za and we’ll do our best to answer.