Visitors to SA are experiencing very long delays at OR Tambo International Airport’s immigration desk, and these are mostly caused by understaffing of the biometric capturing system. The system‚ which captures travellers’ fingerprints at SA ’s ports of entry‚ was introduced by the Department of Home Affairs in April 2015‚ but rolled out in earnest in June 2016 at 65% of the counters at terminals for arrivals and transit passengers. The delays are earning SA a bad reputation overseas and could hurt tourism and the country’s position as a key exchange hub in the region. Comair CEO Erik Venter said his airline’s flights were "constantly having to reaccommodate" international passengers who missed connecting flights. He told Radio 702 on Wednesday that the department was aware of the issue but did not appear to be doing anything about it. "Everyone is speaking to home affairs‚ including the minister of tourism himself." Home affairs "say that they have budget constraints and they don’t have enough staff to man the desks". "It’s actually becoming quite severe because people who are coming in from foreign flights are ending up standing in the queues for so long that they end up missing their connecting flights." These passengers were the "visible cases", but the perception the delays created abroad was more problematic, Venter said. "We are getting quite a bad reputation overseas with the tour operators and the travel agents, who are actually telling people about this and we don’t see how many people end up deciding not to come to SA." Compounding the problem was confusion over the requirement for foreign visitors to travel here with unabridged birth certificates for their children. "We’re still turning people away‚ still turning families away who arrive without them. "They were supposed to amend these regulations about a year ago and all that they’ve done is say that it is at the immigration officer’s discretion as to whether they allow people through with or without the unabridged birth certificates‚ so basically the requirement is that you better have one with you‚" he said. Venter said a task team was set up in 2015 to attend to these issues‚ but so far "nothing has come of it". "Every tourism body in the country is on this thing‚ we’ve got the airline association‚ we’ve got the South African Tourism Service Association‚ we’ve got the minister of tourism … we’ve been after [Home Affairs] Minister [Malusi] Gigaba to get this solved‚ but we’re making no progress." Spokesman Mayihlome Tshwete said long waiting periods were a reality, but the Home Affairs Department was doing what it could to make the system more efficient. "This is a trend that exists everywhere in the world where you are required to submit biometrics. But notwithstanding‚ the department is doing what it can to make sure that we look at where to be more efficient at the ports of entry."