President Jacob Zuma had blatantly lied under oath, the DA said in court papers at the weekend, in the court battle over the publication of the public protector’s state capture report. Former public protector Thuli Madonsela looked into allegations of an improper relationship between the president, other state officials and the Gupta family, in what subsequently became known as the state capture investigation. She finalised and signed her report just before she left office. The president brought an urgent high court application to prevent the release of the report. In his latest court papers, Zuma argued that its finalisation, without affording him an opportunity to respond to allegations against him, was unfair and a breach of his rights. The case is due to be heard by a full bench of three judges in the High Court in Pretoria on Tuesday and Wednesday. At the weekend, more court papers were exchanged as the president asked for permission to amend the order he originally sought from the court and to postpone the hearing. The DA, the EFF, the United Democratic Movement and the Congress of the People have all rejected Zuma’s applications to amend and postpone, saying they were an abuse of process. In his affidavit, filed on Saturday, Zuma said his application to postpone was in good faith and "not a technical manoeuvre for the purposes of obtaining an advantage". But the DA’s legal representative, attorney Elzanne Jonker, rejected this outright, saying Zuma’s applications were "bad faith technical manoeuvres that seek merely to delay the hearing of this matter and thereby delay the release of the public protector’s final report". "The president’s willingness to use state resources to abuse this court’s process to advance his own ends clearly knows no bounds," she said. "He is willing to lie under oath to achieve his ends. And he expects the taxpayers to pick up the tab," said the affidavit. The DA said Zuma’s assertion that a crucial concession made in one of his affidavits was the result of a typographical error was a "blatant lie". Zuma had said in a previous affidavit that if the report was a final one, it should be released to the public. On Saturday, he said this earlier statement was an error and should have read "not be released". But the DA said this did not fit with everything else he had argued and with his overall case. Nor did he correct the typo when he first had the opportunity to do so. EFF president Julius Malema — on behalf of the other opposition parties in the case — agreed, saying this was evidence of Zuma’s "determination to mislead the court under oath and to perjure himself". All the opposition parties said that Zuma’s application to amend was a brand-new case. Instead of seeking an interdict to prevent the release of the report, the president now wanted the court to declare that the finalisation of the state-capture report — without the president’s input — was unlawful. Zuma also wanted the court to order that the report could only be finalised once his input was received. Malema said a challenge to the lawfulness of a report cannot, in law, prevent its publication. "It is apparent that the president now accepts the finality of the report. If that is so, the report must be published."