OUAGADOUGOU — Away from the drama surrounding the axing of striker Tokelo Rantie, Bafana Bafana coach Shakes Mashaba seemed quite relaxed on Thursday despite pressure to deliver in the coming 2018 World Cup qualifiers. This is a crucial qualifying campaign for Mashaba whose job would be on the line if Bafana do not have a good start against Burkina Faso here on Saturday (kick-off 8pm SA time) and Senegal at home in November. Rantie failed to arrive when the team assembled in Johannesburg on Sunday. He was also a no-show at the airport when the squad left for Burkina Faso, saying he did not have transport from his home in the Free State. A furious Mashaba said: "We don’t condone these kind of things. I wash my hands. "We sent a call-up letter to his club [Genclerbirligi in Turkey] and they released him." Team manager Barney Kujane’s attempts to contact Rantie proved fruitless as the striker has turned off his phone. "He is not part of the team, so we felt that we should let him stay [in SA], for the sake of the team spirit. The matter will be dealt with by the Safa hierarchy," he said. Rantie’s absence will affect Mashaba’s plans, although he does have the in-form Wits striker Eleazar Rodgers. The coach could also opt for Thulani Seroro‚ who is an outcast at Ajax Amsterdam‚ playing just behind Thamsanqa Gabuza or Rodgers. The team is settled in Ouagadougou ahead of the match against a Burkinabe side still on a high after qualifying for the 2017 Africa Cup of Nations. By Wednesday, Bafana had only managed to fit in two training sessions, due to the fact that they had to travel via Abidjan (Ivory Coast) to get to Ouagadougou, where temperatures soar to 36°C. The visitors were due to have their third training session late on Thursday. "We wasted days on the road without training. Being on the road is hectic for the players. The players were a little bit tired, but the session we had yesterday [Wednesday] helped us a lot. We are happy and we know the players’ level of participation," said Mashaba, who identified former Chippa United striker Aristide Bance as a big threat. "Their striker was at Chippa United. He is a big boy and I think with [Mulomowandau] Mathoho there, that will be halfway solved. "We will match them pound for pound. We need to get two goals in this game and we will be on the right track. We are ready and we believe the boys we have here will do the job for us." The heat in Ouagadougou will certainly play a role. The game will be played at 6pm local time, but it is still blazing hot at that time. "I know people will talk about the heat, but they also have to deal with the heat. It’s a psychological thing. We need to contain them in the first 15 or 20 minutes because they will come hard at us," said Mashaba. The Burkinabe team, meanwhile, have been conducting their training sessions behind closed doors since Wednesday. On another note, Mashaba has praised defender Mulomowandau Mathoho for travelling to Burkina Faso with the team despite the death of his younger brother on Sunday. The Kaizer Chiefs defender‚ nicknamed "Tower"‚ has been in contact with his family this week and will play for Bafana on Saturday. The funeral will take place next week and the player looks set to miss Bafana’s friendly international against Ghana at Moses Mabhida Stadium on Tuesday. "We are sitting here with a problem. Mathoho came to us and told us that his younger brother has passed on," said the coach. "We need to encourage him and we appreciate that he says he will stay with the team and carry on. "We would like to say to the family that we are with them at this point in time and we would like to thank them for allowing Mathoho to come here and finish his commitment with the national team." Mathoho will start the match on Saturday in central defence‚ alongside Thulani Hlatshwayo‚ who looks set to wear the captain’s armband. PUBLISHED IN BUSINESS DAY – NO REPUBLICATION RIGHTS