President Jacob Zuma is taking the hot seat in Parliament this week, where he will be asked about the risks to the economy of the investigation against Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan. Gordhan is due to appear in court on November 2 on fraud charges in connection with former South African Revenue Service deputy commissioner Ivan Pillay’s early retirement payout. On Tuesday, the DA is to ask Zuma about the implications of the investigation against the finance minister on the country’s economic stability. The Gordhan issue has divided the ANC and the Cabinet, with some in the party arguing that state institutions are being used to fight political battles. Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa has expressed confidence in Gordhan, while Minister in the Presidency Jeff Radebe said on Thursday the Cabinet was behind Gordhan because of the principle of innocent until proven guilty. The ANC in Parliament will also ask Zuma about the Presidential State-Owned Enterprises Coordinating Council in light of the fact that there is a Presidential Infrastructure Coordinating Commission. The ruling party will also ask the president about credit ratings agencies. Friday marks the deadline for Zuma to respond to the Council for the Advancement of the South African Constitution to sign the Financial Intelligence Centre Amendment Bill or return it to the National Assembly, failing which the organisation will take the president to court. Statistician-General Pali Lehohla will on Tuesday release a report on the financials of higher education institutions. The report comes at a time when the #FeesMustFall movement has intensified its campaign for free, quality and decolonised higher education. There have been growing calls for a countrywide shutdown of universities because of the disturbing scenes that have been playing out on campuses since Higher Education Minister Blade Nzimande gave institutions the go-ahead to increase fees to 8% while also undertaking to plug the gap for poor and so-called missing-middle students. However, there have been two fatalities and reports of a rape on campus, leading to growing calls for a retreat. Lehohla’s report will provide the financial statistics of public higher education institutions for 2015. It will include information on the income the institutions received from sources including tuition fees and state grants. It will also provide a breakdown of cash payments such as employee compensation and the purchase of goods. The South African Nuclear Energy Corporation will present its 2014-15 and 2015-16 reports in Parliament on Tuesday. The portfolio committee on communications will interview candidates for Independent Communications Authority of SA (Icasa) councillors. Icasa will be back in Parliament on Wednesday to brief MPs about how the sale of spectrum would benefit the state and South Africans.