Residential building is slipping into a pattern that could be described in clinical terms — the patient improving sporadically with isolated indications of long-term growth. House prices continued to grow nationally in real terms (above inflation) for the first half of 2016, averaging just more than 7% year on year. But this has been bolstered by the astonishing buoyancy of the Western Cape where, the latest statistics show, house price growth is now double the national figure – boosted by interprovince relocation of families seeking stability. This growth, however, is starting to affect the capacity of the Cape’s most attractive hubs — in particular metropolitan Cape Town. Demand for housing in all segments is outstripping supply. But the Cape is not alone. Nationally the lack of new homes has created a crisis. Estimates put the immediate need at between 2-million and 2.5-million houses. Rapid urbanisation and population movement has far outstripped the pace of building. But while demand is burgeoning, supply is slowing. Reserve Bank statistics show that the volume of residential building peaked in 2007 and has dropped steadily: during 2015 the amount of new building completed was about 45% less than at the 2007 peak. Weak building activity has put pressure on input costs, as recorded by the Haylett Index and by the Bureau for Economic Research’s Building Cost Index, which measures tender prices. This resulted in growth rates as low as 2% in 2015. There are other indicators ringing the warning bells. Statistics SA data suggest growth in additions and alterations is also slowing – a sure sign that home owners are feeling the pinch. New homes are also getting smaller, indicating harsh economic times. Families are struggling to keep up with running and borrowing costs. Thankfully, mortgage interest rates are not expected to rise in the immediate future — and could even fall in 2017. Both the Absa and FNB risk indices record that the average replacement cost of a new home is some 25% higher than existing home values. In other words, it’s statistically cheaper to buy than to build. However, the supply of affordable existing homes falls woefully short of demand. Thus, lack of housing continues to be a national priority. This is particularly evident in underprivileged communities. Despite the government having built about 4-million RDP homes to date the exercise, while laudable, is a drop in the ocean. RDP housing has its own problems. Research by the Social Housing Foundation into the economic perspective of the scheme concludes that RDP homes suffer from poor quality construction, requiring a high level of ongoing investment. This is exacerbated by a lack of maintenance due to the inability of occupants to pay. The government’s Urban Development Zone tax incentives have also made their mark, giving impetus to the renewal of run-down city suburbs — an example being Cape Town’s Observatory. New building efforts are frustrated by lack of available zoned urban land. This critical shortage has been blamed on the red tape so prevalent in the administrative pyramid controlling vacant land — ranging from municipalities to provinces to national government. The City of Cape Town now has the power to expropriate the railway land on the foreshore, which would enable it to build considerable social housing — but to our knowledge there has been no formal announcement. In 2015, Cape Town’s valuation department indicated that there were 27,000 vacant stands in the municipality. Why, when demand for plots suitable for development is so strong, is building land vacant? Owners have to pay municipal rates on vacant land (although municipal rating systems vary). Perhaps here lies a key… Over the past decade some urban land values have been escalating faster — if sporadically — than improved property values. For example, statistics supplied by Absa show that towards the end of 2014 average land values grew 10.2% (September) and 14% (December), while middle segment housing nominal value growth was 9.9% and 9.6%, respectively. However, with the upsurge in house prices which followed, land values had dropped to 4.4% by the end of March. Cape Town land economist Peter Meakin argues that municipal rates policies that do not sufficiently curb escalating vacant land values, must shoulder much of the responsibility for rising land values. If, he postulates, rates on vacant land were to be increased, it would become expensive to hang on to the land for speculative reasons. Referring to Cape Town, with its residential property market imbalance, Meakin says: "The city acknowledges that the housing waiting list has reached such proportions that it will take generations before it is cleared. Under the present system there will never be sufficient affordable land to satisfy the legitimate needs of poor people." Cape Town is a desirable place in which to live. It is well-run, with good services, infrastructure and governance. As more families and businesses relocate to the Mother City, pressure on the housing market will continue to expand. • Golding is the CEO of the Pam Golding Property group.