THE South African Social Security Agency (Sassa), which oversees the distribution of welfare grants, withheld information from the Treasury about its arrangement with Cash Paymaster Services (CPS) to re-register social grant beneficiaries. The Treasury had agreed to condone a R316m irregular payment made to CPS, but had now decided against this because the agency had not provided it with all the relevant information. The matter is also the subject of a high court application by Corruption Watch to have the payment set aside. The Treasury’s reversal decision was made in August, and on Thursday it said this was because new information had come to light in the court papers. "Sassa omitted material information on the pending court case when submitting their request for condonation. "We were notified of the amendments to the court papers, which were confirmed by Sassa’s submission of the papers when requested," the Treasury said. "The court papers classified the expenditure from irregular to fruitless, which led to the retraction of the condonation." The agency said in its 2015-16 annual report tabled in Parliament this week it was awaiting the outcome on the matter. Sassa’s total irregular expenditure in 2015-16 amounted to R1.14bn, with R414m relating to the repeated extension of physical security contracts; R224m for lease payments; R74m related to a three-year contract for a service provider to undertake forensic investigations, where the supply chain management procedures were not followed; and R19m for other matters. Sassa is responsible for the payment of R140bn in grants annually to about 16-million beneficiaries. The agency entered into a grant distribution contract with Net1 subsidiary CPS, which the Constitutional Court declared to be irregular and invalid. Corruption Watch was involved in this case as a friend of the court. The contract will expire in April 2017 when Sassa will take over the distribution of social grants. Corruption Watch legal and investigations head Leanne Govindsamy said they believed the decision to pay R316m was irregular because the 2012 CPS contract covered the registration of beneficiaries so there was no need for it to be paid extra for doing the same work. Also, there were no detailed minutes of a meeting justifying the decision by Sassa head Virginia Peterson to pay, no conclusive audit report to validate the claim and nothing to show the payment was reasonable, transparent and cost-effective. Govindsamy said there was still no clarity on what was involved in the "reregistration" of the beneficiaries.