There are forces pushing to have the academic year written off in a bid to destabilise the country, Higher Education and Training Minister Blade Nzimande says. Nzimande’s announcement in September to cap university fee increases at 8% and to assist the poor and so-called missing middle has led to widespread and often violent protests across campuses, forcing some universities to close their doors. Nzimande and his department’s officials on Wednesday briefed MPs on the government’s 2017 "fee support to students from poor, working-and middle-class families". Without mentioning names, he said it was clear that the student protests had been hijacked for political reasons. "I agree that there are forces now that have no interest in the academic year and it will suit them if it is not completed because it will destabilise the country," the minister said. Tensions continue to run high as students intensify their campaign for no-fee increases across the board and, ultimately, free education. The University of the Witwatersrand has been the hardest hit by violent protests. Other institutions, including the University of Cape Town and the University of the Western Cape, have been forced to suspend academic activities to allow more time for engagement with stakeholders. The Cape Peninsula University of Technology on Wednesday also suspended classes until further notice after student protests turned violent. The university has opened a case of attempted murder after two of its guards were allegedly locked inside a burning building. Nzimande told MPs that the September announcement was an interim intervention, pending the conclusion of the work of the presidential fees commission. The intervention meant that up to 75% of undergraduate students would be supported and would not be affected by any hike in fees, he said. "Those who can afford must pay," said Nzimande. Diane Parker, a deputy director-general in the department, said a minority of students were driving the protests. Estimates were that at Wits 2,000 students were involved, out of about 38,000 students, she said.