A NEW coalition of civil society organisations, led by AngloGold Ashanti chairman Sipho Pityana and including ANC stalwarts Trevor Manuel and Barbara Hogan, has called on President Jacob Zuma to resign as he has broken his oath of office and put his personal interests ahead of those of the country. The coalition announced its formation on Thursday evening, hours after AngloGold Ashanti and Sibanye Gold — the latter headed by Neal Froneman — had been reprimanded by the Presidency for "the relentless public attacks on Zuma" that his office said were outside the bounds of human decency. Undeterred, Pityana upped the ante, announcing that "Save South Africa" will campaign for Zuma’s removal. As well as Pityana, Manuel and Hogan, the steering committee includes Section27’s Mark Heywood, Kathrada Foundation CEO Shan Bolton, and ANC member as well as leader of the #OccupyLuthuliHouse protest Gugu Ndima. In its first statement, the group said it had written to Zuma on Thursday to request an urgent meeting to discuss his capacity to "provide the leadership that is required to chart a way to stability, economic growth and the realisation of the rights and promises contained in the Constitution". It said: "We suggest, Mr President, that you have put your personal interests ahead of the national interest, jeopardising the independence of key institutions and you have consequently lost the confidence of the people of South Africa. "In these circumstances, we are of the view that the only honourable course of action open to you now is to resign and allow the National Assembly to elect a president who will take the solemn oath of office seriously." The coalition said in the statement it was planning a formal launch in the next few weeks. Earlier on Thursday, the Presidency said that while it "respects the rights of citizens and leaders to freedom of speech … such dialogue is more helpful if it takes place within the bounds of human decency and decorum and upholds respect for key institutions and our country". However, neither AngloGold Ashanti nor Sibanye Gold distanced themselves from Pityana and Froneman. AngloGold spokesman Stewart Bailey said the company fully supported Pityana’s right to give his opinion and Sibanye Gold spokesman James Wellsted said that the company remained committed to finding a way forward for the mining sector and that Froneman’s comments had been made in that context.