S&P Global Ratings (S&P) will be engaging with Treasury and other stakeholders over the next month ahead of the credit rating it will issue on December 2 to get a grip on the structural reforms that are planned, the credit ratings MD for southern Africa, Konrad Reuss, said on Friday. The lack of mention of structural reforms in the medium-term budget policy statement was "disappointing", Reuss said in an address at the Accelerate Cape Town annual general meeting. He said, however, that Treasury officials had informed him that such specific measures were not announced at this time but only in the main budget in February. Structural reforms and SA’s economic growth rate were among the key variables S&P would use in its analysis to determine whether the country should be downgraded from its BBB-on a negative outlook to noninvestment grade. Other key elements were the governance of state-owned enterprises and policy certainty in the mining sector. "SA is not going to go back to a decent growth path without certain structural reforms which might be painful," Reuss said. He noted that the country had lost a lot of goodwill because of prolonged strikes. Its institutional strength was a strong point in its favour, but rising political infighting and leadership battles were a source of concern. "Political risk is more prominent than ever in the South African sovereign credit story," he said. Reuss highlighted the long and difficult task of a country lifting itself out of a subinvestment-grade rating. This would require strong political will to change course and introduce the necessary reforms. Debt service costs would be higher, there would have to be more fiscal consolidation and there would be less to spend on social services and infrastructure. Of the 21 countries that had slipped into junk status, only eight had been able to climb out of it. "It is tough," Reuss noted. The quicker the policy turnaround the better. As at March, S&P had 132 sovereign ratings worldwide, of which 30 had negative outlooks and only five positive outlooks, which clearly demonstrated where the world was in terms of the current credit cycle. Of the total, 48% of the ratings were noninvestment grade and this percentage had climbed consistently over recent years. 